TREASURY MANAGEMENT 
Treasury Management.indb 1 6/19/2018 6:23:56 PM
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKING & FINANCE
KOHINOOR CITY, COMMERCIAL-II, TOWER-1, 2ND & 3RD FLOOR, 
KIROL ROAD, OFF-L.B.S. MARG, KURLA-WEST, 
MUMBAI-400070
Established on 30th April 1928
MISSION
•	 To develop professionally qualified and competent bankers and finance professionals primarily through
a process of education, training, examination, consultancy/counselling and continuing professional
development programs.
VISION
•	 To be premier Institute for developing and nurturing competent professionals in banking and
finance field.
OBJECTIVES
•	 To facilitate study of theory and practice of banking and finance.
•	 To test and certify attainment of competence in the profession of banking and finance.
•	 To collect, analyse and provide information needed by professionals in banking and finance.
•	 To promote continuous professional development.
•	 To promote and undertake research relating to Operations, Products, Instruments, Processes, etc., in
banking and finance and to encourage innovation and creativity among finance professionals so that
they could face competition and succeed.
COMMITTED TO PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE
Website: www.iibf.org.in
Treasury Management.indb 2 6/19/2018 6:23:56 PM
TREASURY 
MANAGEMENT
Indian Institute of Banking & Finance
Second Edition (2018)
Treasury Management.indb 3 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
“This book is meant for educational and learning purposes. The author(s) of the book has/have taken all reasonable 
care to ensure that the contents of the book do not violate any copyright or other intellectual property rights of any 
person in any manner whatsoever. In the event the author(s) has/have been unable to track any source and if any 
copyright has been inadvertently infringed, please notify the publisher in writing for any corrective action.”
© INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKING & FINANCE, MUMBAI, 2010
(This book has been published by Indian Institute of Banking & Finance. Permission 
of the Institute is essential for reproduction of any portion of this book. The views 
expressed herein are not necessarily the views of the Institute.)
All rights reserved under the copyright act. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
transcribed, transmitted, stored in a retrieval system or translated into any language or 
computer language, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, magnetic, optical, 
chemical, manual, photocopy or otherwise without the prior permission of the copyright 
owner. Any person who does any unauthorised act in relation to this publication may be 
liable to criminal prosecution and civil claims for damages.
First published 2010
Reprinted 2011, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018
Second edition 2018
MACMILLAN PUBLISHERS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
Delhi Bengaluru Chennai Kolkata Mumbai
Ahmedabad Bhopal Chandigarh Coimbatore
Cuttack Guwahati Hyderabad Jaipur Lucknow Madurai
Nagpur Patna Pune Thiruvananthapuram Visakhapatnam
ISBN: 978-93-87914-56-8
Published by Macmillan Publishers India Private Ltd,
21, Patullos Road, Chennai 600002, India
Printed at : 
MACMILLAN
Prelims.indd 4 6/22/2018 4:08:34 PM
FOREWORD
The Mission of the Institute is to develop professionally qualified and competent bankers and 
finance professionals primarily through a process of education, training, examination, counseling 
and continuing professional development programs. In line with the Mission, the Institute has been 
offering a bouquet of courses for capacity building of the banking personnel. These courses are 
contemporary and supported by appropriate pedagogical tools for making the distance learning 
wholesome. 
The Institute publishes a dedicated courseware for almost every paper/subject it offers. The Institute 
is also committed to revise and update the syllabus and courseware from time to time, to ensure 
that the course content/coverage is appropriate and is in line with the syllabus prescribed for the 
subject concerned.
The flagship courses/examinations offered by the Institute are JAIIB, CAIIB and the Diploma in 
Banking & Finance (DB&F). The CAIIB syllabus offers two compulsory papers viz., Advanced Bank 
Management and Bank Financial Management. As regards the third paper in CAIIB, candidates have 
the option to choose one out of the eleven optional papers that are offered as electives. The electives 
cover the entire gamut of specialized domains in a bank. The electives currently being offered 
are Human Resources Management, Risk Management, Treasury Management, Retail Banking, 
International Banking, Corporate Banking, Co-operative Banking, Information Technology, Rural 
Banking, Financial Advising and Central Banking.
While the compulsory papers provide the breadth of banking, the electives provide the depth. As 
the current format of CAIIB underscores the fact that current day banking requires general as well 
as domain specific knowledge, banks will therefore find the CAIIB qualified professionals possess 
cutting edge knowledge. 
The present book on one of the elective subjects namely Treasury Management has now been updated. 
The book should, however, not be considered as the only source of information/reading material while 
preparing for the examination due to the rapid changes witnessed in all the areas affecting banking 
and finance. The students have to keep themselves abreast with the current developments by referring 
to economic dailies, articles, books and government publications/websites etc. Questions will be 
based on the recent developments related to the syllabus, but may not have appeared in the book.
The courseware on Treasury Management has been updated and vetted with the help of Subject 
Matter Experts (SMEs) drawn from the field. The Institute acknowledges with gratitude the valuable 
services rendered by the SMEs in updating/vetting the courseware. 
We welcome suggestions for improvement of the courseware.
Mumbai Dr. J N Misra
2018 Chief Executive Officer
Prelims.indd 5 6/21/2018 2:51:18 PM
Treasury Management
First Published (2010)
Compiled from various publications of Indian Institute of Banking & Finance and other relevant
articles/books with contribution by Mr. N V Chalapathi Rao under guidance of Dr. R Bhaskaran,
Former, CEO, IIBF
2018
Book updated by:
Mr. Ramesh Krishnan
Vetted by:
Mr. N V Chalapathi Rao
Treasury Management.indb 6 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
Recommended Reading
The Institute has prepared comprehensive courseware in the form of study kits to facilitate
preparation for the examination without intervention of the teacher.An attempt has been made to
cover fully the syllabus prescribed for the subject and the presentation of topics may not always
be in the same sequence as given in the syllabus. Candidates are also expected to take note of all
the latest developments relating to the subject covered in the syllabus by referring to Financial
Papers, Economic Journals, Latest Books, Publications and relevant websites.
Treasury Management.indb 7 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
CAIIB Subjects
Objective of the Examination: To provide advanced knowledge in banking subjects for better decision
making.
Question Paper Pattern: Objective Type – Multiple Choice Questions
Eligibility: 1. Membership of the Institute
2. Pass in JAIIB examination of the Institute.
Revised Structure: CAIIB Examination is structured with 2 compulsory papers and 11 elective papers
as given below.
I. COMPULSORY PAPERS 
 1.	 Advanced Bank Management
 2.	 Bank Financial Management
II. OPTIONAL PAPERS (Candidates to choose any one)
 1.	 Corporate Banking
 2.	 Rural Banking
 3.	 International Banking
 4.	 Retail Banking
 5.	 Co-operative Banking
 6.	 FinancialAdvising
 7.	 Human Resources Management
 8.	 Information Technology
 9.	 Risk Management
 10.	 Central Banking
 11.	 Treasury Management
Treasury Management.indb 8 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
TREASURY MANAGEMENT 
SYLLABUS
Module A: An Overview
	 1.	 Financial Markets
	 2.	 Treasury
	 3.	 Objectives of Treasury
	 4.	 Structure and Organization
	 5.	 Functions of a Treasurer
	 6.	 Responsibility of a Treasurer
Module B: Treasury Operations
	 1.	 Liquidity Management-CRR/CCIL/RTGS
	 2.	 Objectives, Sources and Deployment
	 3.	 Internal Control, Netting
	 4.	 Cost centre/Profit centre, Integrated treasury, Planning & control, Risk analysis
	 5.	 Treasury Instruments
Module C: Treasury & International Banking
	 1.	 Global scenario and treasury operations
	 2.	 Exchange rate mechanism
	 3.	 Dealing and trading operations: Control and orderly conduct, Moral and ethical codes, Checks
and balances
	 4.	 Revaluation: Mark to market and profit calculations, VaR (Value at risk)
	 5.	 Components of multi-currency balance sheet
Module D: Risk Management
	 1.	 Treasury and investment policy
	 2.	 Structure: Front office, Back office and Mid office
	 3.	 Accounting, valuation and exposure norms
	 4.	 Role of information technology in treasury management
	 5.	 Regulation and compliance
	 6.	 Internal & external audit
Treasury Management.indb 9 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
Treasury Management.indb 10 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
CONTENTS
Foreword v
MODULE – A
AN OVERVIEW
1. Financial Markets 3
2. Treasury 12
3. Scope and Functions of Treasury Management 17
MODULE – B
TREASURY OPERATIONS
4. Liquidity Management 33
	 5.	 Integrated Treasury – Cost Centre and Profit Centre	 51
6. Treasury Instruments 57
7. Interest Rate Quotations and Market Terminology 79
8. Fixed Income Securities 86
9. Other Capital Market Instruments 106
10. Foreign Exchange (FX) Markets 129
11. Derivatives – An Overview 140
12. SWAP 154
13. Options 161
14. Fixed Income Securities, Duration and Convexity 176
15. Bond Portfolio Management 195
MODULE – C
TREASURY & INTERNATIONAL BANKING
16. Treasury Operations – The Global Scenario 211
17. Exchange Rate Mechanism 215
18. Risk Analysis and Control 228
19. Forex Valuation 249
20. Ethics, Morals and Code of Conduct for the Dealing Room 253
21. Components of Multi-Currency Balance Sheets 264
Prelims.indd 11 7/6/2018 10:59:55 AM
xii CONTENTS
MODULE – D
RISK MANAGEMENT
	 22.	 Accounting/Valuation	 273
	 23.	 Exposure Norms	 280
	 24.	 Internal and External Audit 288
	 25.	 Role of Information Technology in Treasury Management	 292
	 26.	 Regulations, Supervision and Compliance of Treasury Operations	 299
APPENDICES
Appendix A	—	Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy	 317
Appendix B	—	Examples/Problems	 400
Appendix C	—	Indian Securities Markets	 416
Appendix D	—	Basics of Debt Markets	 427
Appendix E	—	Important Excel Functions	 444
Appendix F	—	Undertakings of FEDAI	 448
Appendix G	—	Glossary of Debt Market Terms	 450
Treasury Management.indb 12 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
MODULE – A
AN OVERVIEW
Units
1. Financial Markets
2. Treasury
3. Scope and Functions of Treasury Management
Treasury Management.indb 1 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
Treasury Management.indb 2 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS
STRUCTURE
1.0 Objective
1.1 An Overview of Markets and Functions
1.2 Roles and Functions of Participants in the Financial Market
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
1
Treasury Management.indb 3 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
4 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide basic insights into various financial markets like capital, debt, derivatives and foreign 
exchange markets.
1.1 AN OVERVIEW OF MARKETS AND FUNCTIONS
1.1-1 Financial Markets are markets, which facilitate the raising of funds and investment of surplus 
assets. These markets also facilitate managing of various risks. Based on the nature of instruments 
traded and availability of access, the financial markets can be divided into different sub-types as under:
1. Capital market
2. Debt market
3. Foreign exchange markets
4. Insurance markets, which facilitate handling of various risks
5. Commodity Market
6. Mutual Fund Markets, and
7. Money market
Financial markets are regulated markets. Currently there are a number of regulators of these markets 
in India. The regulator for Capital Market is Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). SEBI 
also regulates Mutual Funds, though mutual funds also have formed a self-regulatory authority in the 
form of Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI) which is an industry body of mutual funds.
Commodity
Market
State
Government
Financial
Corporate
Figure 1: Financial Markets
Treasury Management.indb 4 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 5
Banks, Foreign Exchange Market and Money Markets are regulated by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI). Insurance Regulatory Authority of India (IRDA) regulates insurance companies. 
The derivative market is not an exclusive market. Derivatives include financial derivatives and 
commodity derivatives. Financial derivatives are regulated by the Reserve Bank of India while the 
commodity markets, which came under the purview of Forward Market Commission (FMC) earlier, 
is now regulated by SEBI after the merger of FMC with SEBI on 28th September, 2015 following 
the fraud at the National Spot Exchange Limited in 2013. Two Self-Regulatory Bodies provide a 
governance structure in India: The Fixed Income, Money Market and Derivatives Association of India 
(FIMMDA) is the SRO comprising of all Public and Private Sector Banks, Foreign Banks, Primary 
Dealers, Financial Institutions and Insurance Companies who operate in the debt market. Twenty one 
Public Sector Banks, twenty three Private Sector Banks, thirty four Foreign Banks, seven Primary 
Dealers, six Financial Institutions and fifteen Insurance Companies are currently the members of 
FIMMDA. FEDAI was set up in 1958 as an Association of banks dealing in foreign exchange in 
India (typically called Authorised Dealers ADs) as a self-regulatory body and is incorporated under 
Section 25 of The Companies Act, 1956. Its major activities include framing of rules governing 
the conduct of inter-bank foreign exchange business among banks vis-á-vis public and liaison with 
RBI for reforms and development of forex market. Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India 
(FEDAI) is the SRO comprising of 21 Public Sector Banks, 45 Foreign Banks, 20 Private Banks 
and 17 Co-operative banks, financial institutions and others totaling 101 members as of July 2017. 
Markets can be classified in terms of access. Accordingly, primary market is the financial market for 
the initial issue and placement of equity and debt securities while secondary market is the market 
where shares & debt securities and derivatives are traded. In the case of primary market, unlike the 
secondary market, no organized stock exchanges are necessary. The primary market is facilitated 
by many intermediaries like arrangers, issue managers, issuing bank, registrars, book runners, etc., 
who intermediate between investors and an issuer. Issue managing, advising and underwriting are 
activities which earn a fee or commission. The primary market for Central Government Securities 
is now underwritten by Primary Dealers and any devolvement in issuances is taken up by the PDs 
as per their underwriting commitments. RBI no longer takes up any devolvement on its book, as 
proscribed under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003.
The secondary market (also called aftermarket) is the market for trading of equity and debt instruments. 
This market can be in the form of Over The Counter (OTC) where the transaction takes place between 
two parties directly and or organised stock exchanges. In the secondary market, securities are sold by 
and transferred from one investor to another. The efficiency and price discovery in the financial market 
is enhanced when the secondary market is highly liquid and transparent. The eligibility of stocks and 
bonds for trading, and the functioning of stock exchanges in the secondary market is regulated by SEBI 
(Securities & Exchange Board of India). Most stock exchanges in India have been demutualized. These 
stock exchanges have also established robust trading systems and settlement practices.
Stockbrokers are the intermediaries between the stock exchanges and the investors. Nowadays, thanks 
to IT driven trading platforms, trading systems and electronic form of holding of shares (demat), 
investors are able to trade in the market directly but through broking houses. Stock brokers deal 
with many clients and many relatively small transactions. This can be contrasted with the primary 
markets and initial public offerings, which can be seen as the wholesale side of the capital market. 
Issue of securities and bonds in the primary market is also governed by guidelines issued by SEBI. 
Treasury Management.indb 5 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
6 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
There are a number of investor protection oriented practices introduced by SEBI which have to be 
adhered to and complied by Issuers.
Overview of the markets:
1.1-2 Capital Market – The capital market is the market wherein long-term loans and equity capital 
are raised and traded. Companies, Government, Banks and Financial Institutions raise funds for their 
long-term uses through the capital market. In terms of instruments and practices, the capital market 
can be broadly classified into the stock market and the bond market. Shares, debentures and bonds 
are issued and traded in the capital market. Companies issue these instruments in the primary market. 
The instruments can be traded in the secondary market. Equity, company and stock exchange related 
issues are regulated by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Bond market, more particularly 
G-Sec market, and financial institutions-related issues are regulated by Reserve Bank of India.
Capital market consists of (i) Stock markets, which facilitate equity investment, and buying and 
selling of shares of companies listed on the stock exchanges and (ii) Debt markets, which deal with 
issue of debt contracts and the buying and selling of bonds and debentures.
Capital market also consists of derivatives market. This market is also known as Futures & Options 
(F&O) market and trades in options and futures contracts. A derivative market is a market which 
could either be an OTC or exchange driven market. Derivatives are instruments developed on the 
price movement and volatility of an underlying equity, bond or financial contract. Derivative contract 
specifies the right or obligation to receive or deliver cash on a future date, based on some future event 
such as the targeted price of an underlying security or the performance of an index. These contracts 
are useful in providing hedge or risk cover for interest rate changes or change in prices of equity 
instruments. Derivatives market is also a place for speculative trades and is a growing market. The 
derivative (commodity and financial derivatives) markets follow a set of rules and practices. Though 
the commodity and derivative exchanges are organized on the pattern of stock exchanges, there are 
substantial differences in the way trade and settlement takes place.
1.1-3 The money market is a general term for the markets in which banks lend to and borrow money 
or money equivalent from each other, trade in securities/treasury bills and financial instruments such 
as Certificates of Deposit (CDs) or enter into agreements such as Repos and Reverse Repos. The 
market normally trades in instruments with maturities up to one year. It provides short to medium 
term liquidity in the global financial system. Money market functions either on an OTC (over the 
counter) or screen based system. Non-bank entities like Mutual Funds and Financial Institutions also 
operate in the money market in instruments like CD, CP, CBLO and T Bills, but in Call and Notice 
Money markets, only Banks and Primary Dealers are allowed to participate.
1.1-4 The foreign exchange markets are those markets wherein the currencies of various countries are 
traded. Since a foreign currency cannot be used to settle a transaction within a particular country, trade 
between countries and counterparties in different countries must be settled in accepted currencies. 
To achieve this objective, currencies must be traded. The place or process where the currencies 
of various countries are traded in the market, as if they are commodities, is known as the foreign 
exchange market. This market is usually highly liquid particularly in the G7 currencies (USD, JPY, 
EUR, CHF, GBP, CAD, and AUD). The liquidity of the market is high as major international banks 
continually provide the market with both bid (buy) and ask (sell) prices.
Treasury Management.indb 6 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 7
Major foreign exchange trading centers are located in New York, Tokyo, London, Hong Kong, 
Singapore, Paris and Frankfurt. The foreign exchange market is open 24 hours per day throughout 
the week (closing worldwide Friday afternoon till Sunday). Due to geographical differences, it is 
seen that if the European Market is closed, the Asian Market or US will be open. Because of this all 
world currencies are continuously on trade. Traders can react to news when it breaks, rather than 
waiting for the market to open, as is the case with most other domestic markets.
The price of a currency in the foreign exchange is primarily a function of demand and supply. Yet 
there are a number of factors like inflation, interest rates, public debt, political stability and economic 
performance, terms of trade and current deficit etc. that could affect the price of a currency. Thus, in 
the foreign exchange markets, fluctuations in the currency exchange rate occur continuously due to 
developments in the world economy or the national economies. This is in contrast to the equity market 
where a stock may lose or gain value by 5% or more, and reasons for this may become apparent 
when a newspaper report that forecasts for that company has been revised upward or downward, 
or if a key executive has resigned, etc. Of late, the credit rating companies publish country ratings 
which play a role in the currency prices. Yet often the reason for the fluctuation in currency prices 
may not be immediately known at all.
1.1-5 Insurance markets – The insurance companies have the need to maintain funds which are 
invested in the market. These investments are made in approved securities and deposit funds with 
banks. As such the insurance companies are part of the money markets also. The Insurance companies 
and mutual funds were allowed as lenders in the interbank call money market, but now only Banks 
and Primary Dealers can participate in Call Money market. Over and above this, insurance market
has a crucial role to play in as much as it provides certain risk management tools to the corporates 
and financial markets. Absence of such risk mitigants could affect the efficiency of the financial 
market. Insurance companies are broadly divided into two categories, Life Insurance Companies 
and General Insurance Companies. Insurance industry in India is regulated by Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDA).
1.1-6 Mutual Funds – Individuals can invest in the stock and bond market. They can have trading 
accounts with broking houses and undertake their transactions. However, as the stock market and 
other financial markets are complex, all individuals may not be able to access the equity and other 
markets with ease and efficiency. A mutual fund is a pool of money managed by a professional Fund 
Manager. A Mutual fund offers an appropriate platform to the individuals to access the market through 
a plethora of schemes. A mutual fund operates through its Asset Management Company (AMC) which 
employs skilled fund managers to operate in the market and manage the corpus fund. A mutual fund 
is a trust that collects money from a number of investors who share a common investment objective 
and invests the same in equities, bonds, money market instruments and/or other securities. And 
the income/gain generated from this collective investment is distributed proportionately amongst 
the investors after deducting applicable expenses and levies, by calculating a scheme’s “Net Asset 
Value” or NAV. Simply put, the money pooled in by a large number of investors is what makes up a 
Mutual Fund. The AMC can launch a variety of schemes with different types of direct plans (in which 
the investor invests directly) and regular plans (in which the investor invests through brokers) and 
accepts subscription from investors. The money collected in mutual funds is invested by professional 
fund managers in line with the scheme’s stated objective. In return, the fund house charges a small 
Treasury Management.indb 7 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
8 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
fee which is deducted from the investment. The fees charged by mutual funds are regulated and 
are subject to certain limits specified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). A 
mutual fund scheme can be classified into open-ended scheme or close-ended scheme depending 
on its maturity period. An open-ended fund or scheme is one that is available for subscription and 
repurchase on a continuous basis. These schemes do not have a fixed maturity period. On the other 
hand, a close-ended fund or scheme has a stipulated maturity period, e.g., 3–5 years. The fund is 
open for subscription only during a specified period at the time of launch of the scheme. Investors 
can invest in the scheme at the time of the new fund offer and thereafter they can buy or sell the units 
of the scheme on the stock exchanges where the units are listed. In order to provide an exit route to 
the investors, some close-ended funds give an option of selling back the units to the mutual fund 
through periodic repurchase at NAV related prices. SEBI Regulations stipulate that at least one of 
the two exit routes is provided to the investor, i.e., either repurchase facility or through listing on 
stock exchanges. Mutual funds have started the process of disintermediation and they have competed 
reasonably well with banks in mobilizing resources towards units of mutual funds. Mutual funds 
offer multiple product choices for investment across the financial spectrum and cater to all types of 
investor needs. Of late, SEBI has also permitted mutual funds to launch Real Estate Mutual Fund 
Schemes and Infrastructure Debt Fund schemes. Mutual Funds are increasingly being favoured by 
individuals, partnership firms, trusts, banks, financial institutions and corporates for investment. This 
is clear from the fact that the Assets Under management (AUM) of the Indian Mutual Fund Industry 
have grown from ₹3.26 trillion as on 31st March 2007 to ₹21.41 trillion as on 31st October, 2017, 
more than six and half fold increase in a span of about 10 and half years.
1.2 ROLES AND FUNCTIONS OF PARTICIPANTS 
IN THE FINANCIAL MARKET
Given the number of sub markets in the financial system, the players in the market are also large in 
number. Each participant to the market approaches it for investment and/or risk management purposes. 
The varying requirement of the market players and access results in providing depth to the market.
1.2-1 Banks – Banks participate in the capital market and money market. Within the capital market, 
banks take active part in bond markets. Banks may invest in equity and mutual funds as a part of their 
fund management. Banks take active trading interest in the bond market and have certain exposures 
to the equity market also. Banks also participate in the market as clearing houses.
1.2-2 Primary Dealers (PDs) – Primary dealers are entities established for the purpose of marketmaking in government securities. PDs deal in government securities both in primary and secondary 
markets. Their basic responsibility is to provide two-way quotes and act as market makers for 
government securities and strengthen the government securities market. In doing so they operate 
in other markets as well. After the introduction of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management 
(FRBM) Act, the RBI has stopped taking devolvement of government debt issuances on themselves. 
The PDs are mandated to underwrite all central government debt issuances and take up devolvement, 
if any, in such issuances.
1.2-3 Financial Institutions (FIs) – FIs provide/lend long-term funds for industry and agriculture. 
FIs raise their resources through long-term bonds from financial system and borrowings from 
Treasury Management.indb 8 6/19/2018 6:23:57 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 9
international financial institutions like International Finance Corporation (IFC), Asian Development 
Bank (ADB) International Development Association (IDA), International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (IBRD), etc.
1.2-4 Stock Exchanges – A stock exchange is a place where securities are traded. It is duly approved 
by the Regulators to provide sale and purchase of securities by “open cry” or “online” on behalf 
of investors through brokers. The stock exchanges provide clearing house facilities for netting 
of payments and securities delivery. Such clearing houses guarantee all payments and deliveries. 
Securities traded in stock exchanges include equities, debt, and derivatives. Currently, in India, only 
dematerialized securities are allowed to be traded on the stock exchanges. Settlement in securities 
account is made by depositories through participants’ accounts. It is essential that stock exchanges 
are corporatized and demutualized so that there can be greater transparency in the trades and better 
governance in markets.
1.2-5 Brokers – Only brokers approved by Capital Market Regulator can operate on stock exchange. 
Brokers perform the job of intermediating between buyers and seller of securities. They help in 
building up order book, price discovery, and are responsible for a contract being honored. For their 
services, brokers earn a fee known as brokerage. Brokers operate in the Foreign Exchange Markets 
also. Their role is limited to bringing together a buyer and seller at a disclosed price for a disclosed 
quantum of foreign currency and are not permitted to involve in settlement process of the deals 
brokered by them. The accreditation of foreign exchange brokers is done by FEDAI and ADs/
members deal with only accredited brokers.
1.2-6 Investment Bankers (Merchant Bankers) – These are agencies/organizations regulated and 
licensed by SEBI, the Capital Markets Regulator. Merchant bankers arrange raising of funds through 
equity and debt route and assist companies in completing various formalities like filling of the 
prescribed documents, filing of prospectus and other compliances with the Regulators. They advise 
the issuing company on book building, pricing of issue, arranging registrars, bankers to the issue 
and other support services. They can underwrite the issue and also function as issue managers. They 
may also buy and sell on their account. As per regulatory stipulations, such own account business 
should be separately booked and confined to scripts where insider information is not available to the 
investment/merchant banker. Investment/Merchant banking can be an exclusive business. A bank 
can also undertake these activities.
1.2-7 Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) – FIIs are foreign based funds authorised by Capital 
Market Regulator to invest in home countries’ equity and debt market through stock exchanges. 
They are allowed to repatriate sale proceeds of their holdings, provided sales have been made 
through an authorised stock exchange and taxes have been paid. FIIs enjoy de-facto capital account 
convertibility. FII operations provide depth to equity and debt markets and result in increased 
turnover. In India, these activities have brought in technological advancements and foreign funds 
in equity and debt market.
1.2-8 Custodians – Custodians are organizations which are allowed to hold securities on behalf 
of customers and carry out operations on their behalf. They handle both funds and securities of 
Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) including FIIs. Custodians are supervised by the Capital 
Market Regulator. In view of their position and as they handle the payment and settlements, banks 
are able to play the role of custodians effectively. Thus most banks perform the role of custodians.
Treasury Management.indb 9 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
10 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.2-9 Depositories – Depositories hold securities in demat (electronic) form; maintain accounts 
of depository participants who, in turn, maintain accounts of their customers. On instructions of 
stock exchange clearing house, supported by documentation, a depository transfers securities from 
sellers’ to buyers’ accounts in electronic form. Depositories are important for ensuring efficiency 
in the market. They facilitate lending against securities and ensure avoidance of settlement risk 
or bad delivery. National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services 
Limited (CDSL) are the two major depositories that provide dematerialized holding of securities 
by the investors.
Depositories have an important role to play in ensuring smooth delivery of securities. To an extent, 
depositories ensure a process similar to Delivery Versus Payment (DVP) in the equity market.
Let Us Sum Up
The financial markets comprise capital markets, money market, foreign exchange market, mutual 
funds market, insurance markets and debt market. The markets are further classified into primary 
and secondary markets. Capital markets also consist of stock markets and bond markets. Derivatives 
market operates in all these markets. Derivatives market can be either OTC or exchange driven. 
Foreign exchange market is the place where currencies of various countries are traded. Insurance 
market provides certain risk management tools to the corporates. Mutual funds offer appropriate 
platform to individuals to access equity and other markets with ease and efficiency. Each participant 
in the market has a specific role to perform.
Keywords
Stock market, primary and secondary markets, derivatives market, money market, foreign exchange 
market, insurance market, mutual funds, primary dealers, stock exchanges, brokers, investment 
bankers, foreign institutional investors, custodians and depositories.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What does AMFI, the self-regulatory agency for Mutual Funds in India stand for?
(a) Association of Mutual Funds in India.
(b) Actual Money Funding Institute.
(c) All Mutual Funds Institute.
(d) Any Mutual Fund Information.
2. What are the characteristics of ‘Primary Market’?
(a) It is a market where prime banks participate.
(b) It is a financial market for initial issue and placement of equity and debt.
(c) It is a market for trading of equities and debt instruments.
(d) It is a primary market where zero instruments are traded.
Treasury Management.indb 10 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 11
3. What is the difference between close-ended and open-ended mutual funds?
(a) Close-ended schemes do not attract charges while open-ended funds are subject to levy 
of charges.
(b) Close ended schemes are traded in capital markets while open ended schemes are traded 
in exchanges.
(c) Close ended schemes are traded in the secondary markets while the mutual funds 
themselves provide daily selling and buying prices for open – ended schemes.
(d) Close ended schemes provide tax immunity while open ended schemes are always tax 
planning schemes.
4. Who are ‘Primary Dealers’?
(a) Expert dealers in foreign exchange trading.
(b) The accredited foreign exchange dealers.
(c) Chief Dealer in dealing of a bank.
(d) Entities established for the purpose of market making in G-secs.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 11 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
TREASURY
STRUCTURE
2.0 Objective
2.1 Introduction
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
2
Treasury Management.indb 12 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
TREASURY 13
2.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide information on definition and composition of treasury and to introduce to the reader the 
basic functions of treasury.
2.1 INTRODUCTION
Traditionally, the role of the Treasury in Indian banks was limited to ensuring the maintenance of the 
RBI-stipulated norms for Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) – which mandates that a minimum proportion 
of defined liabilities known as net Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) be kept as deposit with 
the central bank and Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) – which obliges banks to invest a specified 
percentage of their liabilities in notified securities issued by the Government of India and State 
Governments or guaranteed by them. Activity in foreign exchange was confined to meeting merchants’ 
and customers’ requirements for imports, exports, remittances and deposits. Furthermore, Indian 
Money Market was characterised by the imperfections arising from administered interest rates. The 
Money Market, therefore, hardly reflected the position of true liquidity in the system. Following the 
recommendations of the Committee to Review the Working of Monetary System (1985: Chairman 
Shri Sukhamoy Chakravarty) and the Working Group on Money Market (1987: Chairman: Shri N. 
Vaghul) RBI had initiated various measures to reform the money market and to develop the necessary 
institutional infrastructure and instruments needed to widen and deepen the money market. To start 
with, Discount and Finance House of India Ltd (DFHI) was set up to provide to the market participants 
an institutional mechanism (in the form of a market maker) to meet their liquidity requirements by 
dealing in short term money market instruments like Call and Notice Money, treasury bills, bills 
rediscounting, etc. Further, steps such as increasing the number of instruments by introducing 
Commercial Paper (CP) and Certificate of Deposits (CD) greatly contributed to the development of 
money market. To enable price discovery, cap on call money interest rate was removed in stages, and 
completely withdrawn in May 1989. Non-banking institutions such as Life Insurance Corporation, 
All India Financial Institutions, Mutual Funds, etc, were, over a period, allowed to enter the call 
money market but only as lenders. While the reported misuse of Ready-Forward (Repos) transactions 
by some of the market participants had resulted in its partial ban for some time, the instrument was 
subsequently re-introduced with necessary safeguards to prevent its misuse and an improved SGL 
transfer procedure facilitated its effective monitoring. The introduction of Delivery Versus Payment 
(DVP) system for securities settlement at Public Debt Offices substantially reduced the counter party 
risk in security transfers and this also infused confidence in the introduction of repos and expansion 
of the list of repo-able securities. ‘Repos’ is presently an important instrument in the money market. 
It may be noted that DFHI was amalgamated with SBI Gilts Limited in 2004 and the new company 
is known as SBI DFHI Limited. SBI DFHI Limited now acts as a Primary Dealer to support the book 
building process in Primary Auctions of Government securities and to provide the necessary depth and 
liquidity to the Secondary market in Government Securities.
The deregulation of financial markets began with the shift to market – determined interest and 
exchange rates and moved ahead with the freeing of bank deposit and lending rates. The RBI began 
using monetary intervention tools such as repos and open market operations (OMOs) to manage 
liquidity in the financial system and make the determination of interest rates on government securities 
more transparent and competitive by holding auctions. With the result, unlike earlier, their yields 
Treasury Management.indb 13 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
14 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
got aligned with those in the rest of the market. In fact, they function effectively as benchmark or 
reference yields on other securities.
Post-liberalization, deregulation and financial market reforms, a vibrant bond market has evolved in 
the country. This has enhanced the relative importance of investments and the investment portfolio 
in the balance sheets of banks. Investments are now viewed as an alternative to credit, the historical 
source of profits for banks. Further, being tradable assets, they offer both interest spread as well 
as capital appreciation. Just like equity prices and foreign exchange markets, interest rates (yields) 
on debt instruments are determined through the interplay of various economic, financial (liquidity, 
inflation, government’s/RBI’s policies, growth, forex demand and supply, domestic interest rates visà-vis global, etc.) and political (local and international) factors and events. Given this, as in the case 
of equities and forex rates, bond yields can (and do) vary from moment to moment. The reflection 
of these changes in spot interest rates has seen the fluctuations in security prices – as indeed those 
of all bonds, whether government or non-government.
Similarly, the rupee’s exchange rate has become volatile. There is sufficient fluctuation in both 
intraday and inter-day prices, enabling one to earn trading profits on buying and selling the currency. 
The forward market in India is another potential source of profits as, more often than not, it deviates 
from interest parity conditions. Cross-currency (dollar/yen, sterling/dollar, dollar/Swiss franc) trading 
opportunities are, of course, older and have come to life in Indian banks after liberalization.
The volatility in interest rates (yields) is the major reason for the transformation of bank treasuries 
from mere CRR and SLR – keepers to a profit centre. Downward and upward movements in gilt 
yields offer ample opportunities for the bank to trade in the underlying securities and earn profits. 
An active treasury can arbitrage’ (earns profits without risk) by borrowing cheap (money market/
forex market) and investing in money, forex and bond markets at higher rates to earn a spread. Bank 
treasuries deal with the customers enabling them to execute their transactions in financial markets. 
Apart from trade execution, in such situations, the bank is, in effect, ‘lending’ its balance sheet so 
that counterparty risk for both the customer and the deal counterparty is overcome. Another key 
(modern) function of the treasury is asset-liability management and hedging (i.e. insulating) the 
bank’s balance sheet from interest and exchange rate fluctuations. This involves reordering the 
maturity and interest rate patterns of assets and liabilities, either through direct portfolio actions or 
derivatives (e.g. swaps and futures), to minimize or eliminate the risks arising from mismatches 
between the two sides of the balance sheet. The sources of profits of treasury are:
(a) Investments, where the bank strives to earn a higher yield than its cost of funds. An example 
is buying a corporate bond yielding 7% and maturing in three years, financed by deposits 
costing 6%.
(b) Spreads between yields on money market assets and money market funding. The bank may, 
for instance, borrow short- term for 5% and deploy in commercial paper with returns of 6%.
(c) Arbitrage is using the price/interest rate differential in two markets on similar risk asset class 
to earn a profit. For example, a buy/sell swap in the forex market, where the bank converts 
its rupee funds into a dollar deposit, earns LIBOR linked interest and gets back rupee on 
deposit maturity. This generates a risk-free profit (“arbitrage”), if LIBOR linked interest plus 
the forward premium on dollar/rupee is more than the domestic interest rate at which the 
resource is funded.
Treasury Management.indb 14 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
TREASURY 15
(d) Relative Value. This is a form of arbitrage in which the bank exploits anomalies in market 
prices. The bank may have an ‘AAA’ bond, which yields only 6%, compared to another with 
the same rating and maturity, but of a different issuer, which offers 6.5%. It is worthwhile 
to sell the first bond and invest in the second and improve the yield by 50 bps without any 
incremental risk, as both bonds have the same credit quality. In such transactions, there is the 
possibility of price loss in the first bond which can be offset by the higher yield on the latter. 
A treasurer will have to do such arbitrages judiciously.
(e) Proprietary Trading. In this, the focus is entirely on short-term, as opposed to investment 
which is long term. The aim is to earn trading profits from movements in security and currency 
prices during a day or a few days of trading. These are mostly directional trades. Under this, 
a dealer may buy (say) 9.81% Government of India security 2017 at `116.50 at a yield of 
8.40% in anticipation of the yield falling to 7.70%, on fundamental (or technical) grounds. 
If this happens, the bond appreciates and the bank exits the position with a profit.
   Forex trading is also directional, involving, for example, buying dollar/yen in the 
expectation that the dollar will appreciate, or selling euro/dollar hoping that the euro will 
decline.
(f) Customer Services. Bank treasuries offer their products and services to customers/non-banking 
customers. The income of banks from these activities comprises fees for and/or margins 
on trade execution. Profits would be higher on structured (i.e., non-standard) transactions 
compared to plain vanilla (e.g., a straightforward buy sell USD/INR) deals.
(g) Transfer Pricing: In order to measure branch profitability in a scientific manner, the Treasury 
assumes the role of a central depository for accumulating all resources raised by branches and 
allocating resources to needy branches. To this end, it operates a transfer pricing mechanism, 
so that the branches and Treasury operate as profit centres.
Treasuries could also be involved in investment banking where their responsibility covers trade 
execution on behalf of the bank’s clients in the cash or derivatives markets. These may generate 
good margins, depending on the complexity and skills required to design and put through customized 
structures in the market.
Let Us Sum Up
Traditionally, the role of treasury in Indian banks was limited to ensuring the maintenance of CRR and 
SLR. However, subsequent to liberalization, the volatility in interest rates (yields) is the major reason 
for the transformation of treasuries from mere CRR/SLR keepers to profit centres. Treasuries have 
started taking advantage of spreads, arbitrage, relative values and making investments. Proprietary 
trading has become an important characteristic of modern treasuries. Treasuries are now operating 
the Transfer Pricing mechanism among branches.
Keywords
Investments, spreads, arbitrage, relative value and proprietary trading
Treasury Management.indb 15 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
16 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What greatly reduced the counter party risk in trading in government securities?
(a) Introduction of Delivery versus Payment (DVP) for securities settlement at Public Debt 
Offices.
(b) Fixing caps for each counter party in trading.
(c) Providing government guarantee to the players in the market.
(d) Moral suasion by Reserve Bank of India.
2. Which one is monetary intervention tool used by Reserve Bank of India?
(a) Organized money overview.
(b) Open Market Operations (OMO).
(c) Open Micro Operations.
(d) Online Market Oversight.
3. What is the underlying principle in treasuries undertaking arbitrage transactions?
(a) Acceptance of deals by counterparty banks.
(b) Reciprocal arrangements with counter parties.
(c) Opportunities where LIBOR plus forward premium on USD/INR is more than domestic 
interest rates.
(d) Regulatory approvals.
4. 9.81% GOI 2021 with an yield of 8.40% was bought for 116.50. When the yield falls to 7.70%, 
what will happen to the price of the bond?
(a) Bond price is insensitive to yield movements.
(b) Bond price falls.
(c) Bond price does not change.
(d) Bond price rises.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 16 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
 SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS
OF TREASURY
MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE
3.0 Objective
3.1 Nature of Treasury Assets and Liabilities
3.2 Liability Products/Instruments
3.3 Objectives of the Treasury
3.4 Organisational Structure
3.5 Functions of a Treasurer
3.6 Responsibilities of a Treasurer
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
3
Treasury Management.indb 17 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
18 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
3.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide information on treasury assets and liabilities, on treasury products, to discuss domestic 
treasury, foreign exchange market, derivatives, organizational structure of Treasury, basic treasury 
functions and responsibilities of a treasurer.
3.1 NATURE OF TREASURY ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Bank’s balance sheet consists of treasury assets and liabilities on the one hand and non-treasury 
assets and liabilities on the other. There is a clear distinction between the two groups.
In general, if a specific asset or liability is created through a transaction in the inter-bank market, 
bond market, capital market or forex market, and/or can be assigned or negotiated, it becomes a part 
of the treasury portfolio of the bank. Treasury assets are marketable or tradable subject to meeting 
legal obligations such as payment of applicable stamp duty, etc. Another characteristic of treasury 
assets is that they are likely to lose or gain value on the movement of market and should therefore 
(and often are required to) be marked to market.
An example of a treasury asset/liability which is created by corporate/treasury actions/decisions on 
funding/deployment, but is not tradable, is the Inter-bank Participation Certificate. Loans and advances 
are specific contractual agreements between the bank and its borrowers, and do not form a part of the 
treasury assets, although these are obligations to the bank. Some of the loan/assets can, however, be 
securitized and sold in the market. If a bank was to take a position in such securitised debts, it would 
become part of treasury activity. On the other hand, an investment in G-Secs can be traded in the 
market. It is, therefore, a treasury asset. An illustrative list of (domestic) treasury assets is as follows:
• G-Secs (T-bills, Central and State Government Securities)
• Commercial Paper
• Certificates of Deposit
• SLR Bonds
• Non-SLR Bonds
• Pass Through Certificates
• Equity Shares
• REPO
• Bills rediscounted
• CBLO lendings
• Call Lendings
• The following are examples of treasury liabilities:
• Call/Notice/Term Money Borrowings
• Certificates of Deposit (issuing Bank)
• Tier II Capital Bonds (if issued by the bank)
• Reverse Repo
• CBLO Borrowings
Treasury liabilities are distinguished from other liabilities by the fact that they are borrowings 
from the money (or debt) market. Deposits (current and savings accounts and fixed deposits) are 
Treasury Management.indb 18 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS OF TREASURY MANAGEMENT 19
not treasury liabilities, but categorized under Branch liabilities. Treasury liabilities are also termed 
“Purchased Funds” in a broad sense as they are raised on need-based situation and mostly under 
discretionary/dynamic pricing.
List of Bank’s Treasury Products
A. Domestic Treasury
1. Asset Products/Instruments
• Call/Notice Money Lending
• Term Money Lending/Inter-bank Deposits
• Investment in CDs
• Commercial Paper
• Inter-bank Participation Certificates
• Derivative Usance Promissory Notes/Bankers’ or Corporate Acceptances
• Repos/CBLO – backed lending through CCIL
• SLR Bonds (notified as such by the RBI)
(a) Issued by the Government of India as securities and T-bills
(b) Issued by State Governments
(c) Guaranteed by Government of India
(d) Guaranteed by State Governments
• Bonds (issued by)
(a) Financial Institutions
(b) Banks/NBFCs (Tier II Capital)
(c) Corporates
(d) State-level Enterprises
(e) Infrastructure Projects
• Asset-backed Securities (PTCs) or Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO)
• Private Placements
• Floating Rate Bonds
• Tax-free Bonds
• Preference Shares
• Listed/Unlisted Equity
• Mutual Funds
• Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures
3.2 LIABILITY PRODUCTS/INSTRUMENTS
• Call/Notice Money Borrowing
• Term Money Borrowing
• CD Issues
• Inter-bank Participation Certificates
• Reverse Repos/CBLO-backed Borrowing through CCIL
Treasury Management.indb 19 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
20 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Refinance (RBI, SIDBI, NABARD, Exim Bank, NHB)
• Tier II Bonds (issued by bank)
B. Foreign Exchange
(i) Interbank
• Spot Currencies (this could be in the form of buy or sell for cash or settlement in a day 
known as TOM)
• Forward and Forward-Forward (simultaneous purchase and sale of a currency for two 
different forward maturities)
• Foreign Currency Placements, Investments and Borrowings (in accordance with RBI 
guidelines)
(ii) Merchant Transactions (Initiated at Branches, Arranged by Forex Treasury)
• Pre-shipment Credit in Foreign Currency (PCFC)
• Foreign Currency Bills Purchased (FCBP)
• Foreign Currency Loans (FCLs)/FCNR (B) Loans
• Post-shipment Credit in Foreign Currency (PSFC)
• External Commercial Borrowing (ECB)
C. Derivatives
• Interest Rate Swaps (IRSs)
• Forward Rate Agreements (FRAs)
• Interest Rate Futures
• Interest Rate Options
• Currency Options
D. Certain corporate assets such as investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are reckoned as 
treasury assets although they are not traded and are permanent in nature.
These investments and instruments have certain characteristics and the buy /sell and trade practices 
are developed by markets. A Treasury will have to adopt the market practices in terms of pricing 
and settlement.
3.3 OBJECTIVES OF THE TREASURY
Treasury of a commercial bank undertakes various operations in fulfillment of the following 
objectives:
• To take advantage of the available trading and arbitrage opportunities in the bond and forex 
markets.
• To deploy and invest the deposit liabilities, internal generation and cash flows from maturing 
assets for optimum return on appropriate maturities either current or forward basis consistent 
with the bank’s risk policies/appetite.
Treasury Management.indb 20 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS OF TREASURY MANAGEMENT 21
• To fund the balance sheet as cheaply as possible taking into account the marginal impact of 
these actions.
• To effectively manage the forex assets and liabilities of the bank.
• To manage and contain the treasury risks of the bank within the approved and prudential 
norms of the bank and regulatory authorities.
• To assess, advise and manage the financial risks associated with the non-treasury assets and 
liabilities of the bank.
• To adopt the best practices in dealing, clearing, settlement and risk management in treasury 
operations.
• To maintain statutory reserves – CRR and SLR – as mandated by the RBI on current and 
forward planning basis.
• To deploy profitably and without compromising liquidity the clearing surpluses of the bank.
• To identify and borrow on the best terms from the market to meet the clearing deficits of the 
Bank.
• To offer comprehensive value-added treasury and related services to the bank’s customers.
• To act as a profit center for the bank and operationalize a Transfer Pricing mechanism between 
Branches and Treasury, so that both operate as independent Profit Centers.
3.4 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
Organizational structure of a commercial bank treasury should facilitate the handling of all market 
operations, from dealing to settlement, custody and accounting, in both the domestic and foreign 
exchange markets. In view of the voluminous and complex nature of transactions handled by a 
treasury, various functions are segregated as under.
Treasury Organization
Front-Office Dealing and investment – Risk Taking
Mid-Office Risk Management, Policy compliances and Management 
Information
Back-Office Deal Confirmations, Settlements, Accounting and Reconciliation, 
Marking to Market and revaluations
The organization of a treasury depends on the volume of activities handled. However, notwithstanding 
the size or volume of transactions, it is important that the above three functions are distinct and 
work in water-tight compartments. Accordingly, the dealers are not supposed to handle settlement 
or accounts or risk management. The Back-Office should not perform dealing but may perform 
accounting function, and accounting section should not perform dealing but may perform Back 
Office function.
The corporate treasury should be headed by an appropriate senior executive who directs, controls 
and co-ordinates the activities of the treasury. The Front Office reports to him and is fully responsible 
for the management of funds, investments and forex activity. She/he will also be a member of Assets 
Liability Management Committee (ALCO) and help the committee in deciding on various policies 
Treasury Management.indb 21 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
22 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
on treasury management. Banks which have separate forex operations, will have dealers for forex 
operations.
Treasury will have a separate research division under Mid Office. Head of Research will be 
assisted by officers to carry out research activities/analysis in various types of securities. Research 
department could be common for money market, debt, equities and forex. Market analysis would 
also be provided by the research department. The Mid Office will report to The Chief Risk Officer 
(CRO). The CRO will report directly to the Risk Management Committee of the Board (RMCB) 
and not to the Managing Director and CEO. This is to ensure total independence of risk management 
function. Also, at CRO level, all the three forms of risk, namely, Credit, Market and Operational risk 
get integrated. Mid Office undertakes Stress Testing and Back Testing of the portfolio. Appropriate 
information Technology (process, software solution and infra-structure) is necessary for treasury 
management as the operations/transactions are distinct from branch banking and are also very critical. 
As software packages available in the market may not be adequate, banks may have to customize 
the software to suit its needs, changing circumstances and volatility.
The Back Office ensures settlement of all deals executed by Front Office. The Head of Back Office 
will not report to Head of Treasury, but instead to a different vertical Head, like Head of Operations. 
This ensures that there is independence of reporting of all three verticals right up to apex level.
The front office looks into the liquidity position, fund flows, and maintenance of reserve requirement/s. 
Risk managers should be posted in treasury for facilitating the evaluation of scenarios, independent 
review of line/limit excess, reviews of transactions to ensure compliance with regulations, monitor 
risk factors – credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, operational risk - in the transactions and give 
guidance to the front line, viz., dealers to remain in touch with product and market developments.
Chairman & 
Managing Director
Executive Director/s
Corporate Head 
of Treasury
Head of Treasury
Branch
Chief Dealer
Forex
Chief Dealer Money
Market
Chief Dealer
Commodities
Dealers Dealers
Figure 3.1 Corporate/Apex Treasury Organisation Structure
Treasury Management.indb 22 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS OF TREASURY MANAGEMENT 23
3.4.1 Front-office
The front office of a treasury has a responsibility to manage investment and market risks in accordance 
with guidance received from the bank’s ALCO. This is undertaken through the Dealing Room which 
acts as the bank’s interface to international and domestic financial markets. The Dealing Room is 
the center for market and risk management activities in the bank. It is the clearing house for risk 
and has the responsibility to manage the treasury risks taken in all areas of the bank, on behalf of 
customers, and on behalf of the bank, within the policies and limits prescribed by the Board and 
Risk Management Committee. For this reason, significant authority is delegated to the ‘Treasurer’ 
and the Dealing Room staff to commit the bank to market. Treasury also functions as a profit center 
of the bank. It is therefore important that the treasury is managed efficiently. In view of this, control 
over the activities of the treasury and its staff are critical to ensure that the bank is protected from 
undue market risk.
The dealers enter into transactions on the basis of current market price which is ascertained by them 
through the information network made available. Reuters and Bloomberg are market information 
providers which make available market information on a real time basis. In making deals, the dealers 
will have to adhere to the various limits such as counterparty exposure, day dealing limit, etc., that 
have been prescribed.
3.4.2 Mid-Office
Mid-office is responsible for onsite risk measurement, monitoring and management reporting. The 
other functions of Mid-Office are:
(a) Limit setting and monitoring exposures in relation to limits;
(b) Assessing likely market movements based on internal assessments and external/internal 
research;
(c) Evolving hedging strategies for assets and liabilities;
(d) Interacting with the bank’s Risk Management Department on liquidity and market risk;
(e) Monitoring open currency positions;
(f) Calculating and reporting VAR;
(g) Stress testing and back testing of investment and trading portfolios;
(h) Risk-return analysis; and
(i) Marking open positions to market to assess unrealised gain and losses.
3.4.3 Back-Office Functions
The key functions of back-office are:
(a) Deal slip verification;
(b) Generation and dispatch of interbank confirmations;
(c) Monitoring receipt of confirmations from counterparty banks;
(d) Monitoring receipt of confirmations of forward contracts;
(e) Effecting/receiving payments;
Treasury Management.indb 23 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
24 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(f) Settlement through CCIL or direct through nostro as applicable;
(g) Monitoring receipt of forex funds in interbank contracts;
(h) Statutory reports to the RBI;
(i) Management of nostro funds to advise latest funds position to enable the F/O to take the 
decision for the surplus/short fall of funds;
(j) Reconciliation of nostro/other accounts;
(k) Monitoring approved exposure and position limits; and
(l) Accounting.
3.5 FUNCTIONS OF A TREASURER
Treasury operations of a commercial bank consist mainly of two vital functions viz:
(a) Ensuring strict compliance with the statutory requirements of maintaining the stipulated Cash 
Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR), and
(b) Liquidity management by (i) ensuring the optimum utilization of the residual resources 
through investments (ii) raising additional resources required for meeting credit demands at 
an affordable cost and (iii) managing market and liquidity risks in the transactions.
With financial market reforms, banks have been compelled to look for avenues for alternatives to 
credit, the historical source of profits. It has been realised that credit function alone is not sufficient 
and banks should look to investments for earning market related returns on funds. Investments have 
thus gained importance as an equally important part of the banks’ balance sheets. Therefore, over 
and above the statutory holding of government securities, as SLR, a substantial portion of banks’ 
resources are deployed in government/corporate bonds and other products as an alternative to 
credit, with a view to remain liquid and encash trading gains. The treasury operations also include 
providing of cover to the customers of the bank in respect of their foreign exchange exposure for 
their trade transactions like exports, imports, remittances, etc., and extending products and services 
to its customers for hedging the interest rate risks. While doing so, the treasury also takes care of 
the associated functions like liquidity management and asset-liability management of the domestic 
as well as foreign exchange resources and deployment.
Basic Treasury Functions
Domestic Operations Forex Operations
Maintenance of statutory reserves Extending cover to foreign exchange trade transactions
Managing liquidity Funding and managing forex assets and liabilities
Profitable deployment of funds Managing reserves both proprietary and for its 
constituents
Trading and arbitrage Trading and Arbitrage
Hedge and cover operations Providing hedge to forex risks
– proprietary and for its constituents
Mid/Back – Office function/s Mid/Back – Office functions
Treasury Management.indb 24 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS OF TREASURY MANAGEMENT 25
3.6 RESPONSIBILITIES OF A TREASURER
In today’s highly competitive environment, the treasury plays a vital role in the viability and success 
of a bank and calls for effective internal and external interface. It performs a myriad of functions 
such as balance sheet management, liquidity management, reserves management, funds management, 
investments, managing capital adequacy, transfer pricing, risk management, trading activities and 
offering hedge products. It has to work on arriving at an optimal size of the balance sheet, interface 
with various liability and asset groups internally, give appropriate pricing signals keeping in mind 
the liquidity profile of the bank. On the external front it has to provide active trading support to the 
market, make two-way prices, add to the liquidity and continuously strive to provide the customers 
with value-added solutions to their specific financial needs.
3.6.1 Balance Sheet Management
The financial sector reforms have provided the banks freedom to price most of their assets and liabilities 
by themselves, with the exception of pricing of loans under Differential Interest Rate scheme. The 
pricing of treasury assets and liabilities which form a critical mass of the balance sheet, is therefore, 
very crucial to the balance sheet management. It is well known that the balance sheet management is 
a dynamic and proactive process. It requires continuous monitoring, analysis of market changes and 
controls. Demand and supply forces will impact the optimal balance sheet size and its growth rate.
An important aspect of balance sheet management is Liquidity Management. Liquidity essentially 
means the ability to meet all contractual obligations as and when they arise, as well as the ability to 
satisfy funds requirement to meet new business opportunities. Liquidity planning involves an analysis 
of all major cash flows that arise in the bank as a result of changes in the assets and liabilities and 
projecting these cash flows over the future, in sync with the business plan of the Bank. Ideally, balance 
sheet projections should be prepared for a twelve month period on a monthly basis. This would be in 
the nature of a monthly rolling forecast. This will enable the treasury manager to identify any potential 
liquidity problems that may arise in the future, such that corrective action can then be taken to maintain 
adequate liquidity. Liquidity analysis involves a study of the maturity profile of existing assets and 
liabilities over which is superimposed the impact of transactions that are planned for the future.
Effective liquidity management requires careful attention to balance sheet structure and growth. A 
balance sheet that is growing rapidly needs careful scrutiny to determine whether the liquidity of 
the bank is being adversely affected. Very often banks put up excessive assets in the form of cash 
credit loans or investments in securities without having matching source of funds of similar tenor. 
This mismatch in the maturities of assets and liabilities may result in the bank being subjected to 
liquidity risk, because the bank would start depending chronically and excessively on the most easily 
accessible source of funds, i.e., the interbank call money market. This could end in the bank funding 
long-term assets through overnight borrowings on an ongoing basis. It should be borne in mind that 
dependence on the call market may not be advisable due to the sharp fluctuations in market rates as 
well as volatility in the availability of funds in the market.
Funds management by the treasury involves providing a balanced and well diversified liability base 
to fund the various assets in the balance sheet of the bank. Diversified liabilities imply raising funds 
from a variety of sources, through a variety of instruments and for a varied mix of tenors. Customer 
Treasury Management.indb 25 6/19/2018 6:23:58 PM
26 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
deposits are often the most suitable source of funds for a bank, due to actuarial and behavioural 
reasons. At the other end of the spectrum are the funds obtained from the interbank money market 
which are very short term in tenor and volatile as regards rate as well as availability. The treasury 
has to decide on an optimal mix of funds from various sources to ensure that there is no excessive 
dependence on any single category. It is also advisable that the maturity profile of assets conform 
broadly to that of the liabilities, so that there is no large structural mismatch in the balance sheet 
that can lead to liquidity problems. More importantly, the Treasury needs to ensure that the liquidity 
profile is in conformity with the RBI guidelines on Asset – Liability Management.
The treasury also has the responsibility for setting targets for balance sheet size and key ratios, in 
consultation with all business groups. Asset and liability levels need to be monitored and managed 
periodically to even out any structural imbalances. The ALCO (Asset and Liability Committee) should 
meet every month for this aspect of strategic business planning. The size of the balance sheet is a 
matter of great importance for a bank, in light of capital adequacy guidelines. A bank cannot afford to 
be driven just by volume goals which aim at a certain percentage growth in credit and deposits year 
after year. This is because balance sheet growth will call for additional capital in accordance with BIS 
guidelines, and capital is increasingly scarce. Therefore, the focus has now to shift on to the quality of 
assets, with return on assets being a key criterion for measuring the efficiency of deployment of funds.
3.6.2 Transfer Pricing
The treasury not only provides the interface between the bank and the external market, it also provides 
an interface between the asset and liability groups of the bank. It helps to provide a balance between 
the two, so that optimum returns can be obtained on the assets without compromising liquidity. 
The treasurer has to ensure that the funds of the bank are deployed in the most appropriate manner 
without sacrificing either yield or liquidity. This is done very effectively through the means of a 
transfer pricing mechanism administered by the treasury, which can provide correct signal to various 
business groups as to their future asset and liability strategies. Benchmarking of rates provides a ready 
reference for business groups about the correct business strategy to adopt, given the balance sheet 
structure of the bank as well as the conditions prevailing in the money markets and the treasury’s 
forecast about the expected rate movements in the future. Benchmarking is extremely important in 
today’s market environment which allows free market pricing of assets and liabilities. The treasury is 
ideally placed for this purpose since it has an overview of the balance sheet of the bank, a thorough 
understanding of the bank’s overall funding needs as well as direct access to the external market.
Depending on the signals provided by the treasury in the form of benchmark rates for assets and 
liabilities, focus of the individual business groups can be shifted from asset growth to liability growth 
or vice-versa as triggered by the needs of the bank. Thus a correct transfer pricing provides a versatile 
tool in the hands of the treasury manager in optimizing the asset-liability mix on the balance sheet 
and the returns generated thereon.
3.6.3 Reserve Management and Investments
In the Indian banking scenario, a large asset base of a bank consists of investments on account of 
statutory reserves. Since significant proportion of funds is deployed in such reserves, management 
Chapter 1-15.indd 26 6/21/2018 3:41:01 PM
SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS OF TREASURY MANAGEMENT 27
of these reserves is a very important factor in the overall profitability of the bank. It should ideally 
take into account both liquidity as well as yield considerations. Even though the longer maturity 
securities could offer the higher yields, they are most susceptible to fall in price due to changes in 
the yield curve. On the other hand, short dated securities have low price risk but they could offer 
only lower returns. Therefore the choice of an appropriate mix of maturity patterns in the SLR and 
other securities portfolio is a very important function of the treasury manager. Along with this, 
the market risk of the portfolio in terms of its price sensitivity to interest rate changes, needs to be 
quantified and periodically monitored by means of analytical tools such as duration analysis. This 
will give a measure of the precise risk profile of the security holdings, and enable the portfolio 
manager to initiate suitable corrective action in line with the treasury’s overall investment strategy 
and risk return parameters. As part of the Advanced Approach/Internal Models Approach to Market 
Risk management under the BIS standards, the Treasury needs to graduate to more sophisticated 
tools than Duration like Value at Risk (VaR) and ensure their robustness.
Along with investment for statutory reserves, the treasury also makes investments in various other 
kinds of instruments such as Certificate of Deposits, Commercial Papers, Public Sector Bonds, Units 
of mutual funds, Corporate Debts, equity shares etc. These investment decisions depend on factors 
such as bank’s liquidity position, money market condition, tenor of funding available, market liquidity 
in various instruments, yield and tax planning requirements. Treasury may hold investment in these 
instruments till their maturity, or it can trade in them to take advantage of market opportunities.
3.6.4 Trading and Distribution
Trading and Distribution skills are keys to the success of any treasury. Tradability provides liquidity 
in various instruments and generates non-interest income. With increasing competition among banks, 
spreads in traditional banking products are shrinking. On the other hand, cost of various liabilities 
is rising. As a consequence, traditional fund-based income of banks is gradually being eroded. With 
the onset of reforms, it is also seen that there is an increasing trend towards disintermediation in the 
financial markets. Borrowers are directly accessing market through the medium of debt instruments 
like CPs, debentures, etc., or through forex/external borrowings. Moreover, fund-based exposures 
require balance sheet growth, and that in turn entails higher capital adequacy requirements. In such a 
situation, non-fund based revenue gains greater importance. It is here that the strength of the treasury 
lies. It can help to transform a borrower of funds into an issuer of debt. It can then distribute these 
debt instruments to investors who were till now only depositors. This will enable the bank to earn 
a fee income without any balance sheet growth and without locking up funds of its own. Trading 
in instruments creates more liquidity and increases investor appetite. This has been the trend in 
financial markets the world over. Securitisation of debt is likely to be an important growth area in 
the Indian market too in the near future.
3.6.5 Customer Focus
In the present day competitive environment, treasury cannot afford to lose its customer focus. In addition 
to trading avenues, which are essentially volatile in nature, treasury now requires non-volatile 
Treasury Management.indb 27 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
28 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
sources of revenue which are reflected in the diversified customer base of the bank. With the growing 
liberalization and the opening up of the economy to international financial markets and investors, the 
treasury departments of various banks now function in a multi-product, multi-currency environment 
and cater to the multiple needs of its customers. There is bound to be a pressure on the treasury 
to offer various rupee-based and cross currency hedge products to their clients who have foreign 
currency exposures on their balance sheets. In fact, the recent changes in the regulations would, 
over a period of time, ensure the convergence of local currency and foreign currency yield curves 
and enable the clients to manage their foreign currency assets and liabilities in a more profitable 
manner through the use of foreign exchange derivatives both in the area of currency and interest 
rates. Customers today, with the help of the Foreign Exchange Unit of the Treasury, are able to raise 
foreign currency funds either through direct commercial borrowing or through use of export credit 
agency schemes and are also able to reduce the interest costs through embedded options or arrear 
swaps. While these products provide the client with the much desired interest saving, these are not 
without inherent risks. It is imperative for treasury to clearly define and explain these risks to their 
corporate clients and to help them effectively manage these risks keeping in mind the dynamic nature 
of the foreign exchange markets.
3.6.6 Risk Management
Treasury risk management is a separate topic in its own right. One of the major responsibilities of a 
successful treasury is to manage the risks arising out of the financial transactions entered into by the 
treasury. The most important risks which it has to manage are liquidity risk and price risk in addition 
to counterparty risk and issuer risk. In order to manage various risks, there should be a well-defined 
contingency liquidity plan, term structure for interest rate limits, maximum cumulative overflow 
limits, factor sensitivities, etc. These limits should be monitored by an independent risk manager, 
and the reports highlighting these limits, their usage and excesses, if any, should be generated by an 
independent system, monitored and managed by technology and operations.
In conclusion, it is worth reiterating that in today’s fast changing market environment, treasury 
management has acquired a greater degree of complexity and sophistication. The success of any 
treasury thus depends a great deal on strong risk management, independent back-office operations and 
first rate technology. These issues have become all the more important as profitability and commercial 
viability have become key criteria for assessing performance. And, it is these very fundamentals that 
form the edifice of a successful treasury that can sustain efficient allocation of internal resources on 
the one hand and accelerate the globalization of our financial markets on the other.
Let Us Sum Up
The domestic treasury assets comprise G-secs, CPs, CODs, SLR bonds, non-SLR bonds, PTCs, 
equity shares, Reverse Repo, Bills discounted. Treasury liabilities are Call/Notice/Term money, 
certificate of deposits, Tier II bonds and Repo. The main objectives of the treasury are to take 
advantage of attractive trading and arbitrage opportunities in the bond and forex markets, to fund 
the balance sheet as cheaply as possible, and to assess and advise and manage the financial risks 
Treasury Management.indb 28 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
SCOPE AND FUNCTIONS OF TREASURY MANAGEMENT 29
associated with the non-treasury assets and liabilities of the bank and to maintain statutory reserves 
like CRR and SLR. Generally the organization of treasury consists of Front-office, Mid-office and 
Back-office. Broadly Front-office handles business (deals), Mid-office risk management and back 
office settlements and MIS.
Keywords
G-secs, Commercial paper, certificate of deposit, SLR and Non-SLR bonds, Pass Through Certificates, 
equity shares, call/term money, repo/CBLO, Front-office, Mid-office, Back-office, balance sheet 
management transfer pricing, hedge products, two-way prices, and risk management.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Which one of the following is a treasury asset?
(a) G-secs, CDs, CPs and SLR bonds
(b) Cash with Reserve Bank of India
(c) Bills purchased and discounted
(d) Fixed assets of the bank
2. The following are examples of derivatives which are treasury products:
(a) Tier II bonds issued by bank
(b) IRS, SWAPS, FUTURES and OPTIONS
(c) External commercial borrowing
(d) Floating rate bonds
3. What is the principal function of Treasury Front-office?
(a) MIS, reconciliation
(b) Customer service, depository functions
(c) Dealing, risk taking
(d) Risk management
4. What is essentially transfer pricing generally done by Treasuries?
(a) Providing subsidies to various business groups
(b) Asset Liability Management
(c) Strategizing to improve profitability
(d) Identifying and fixing prices for each transaction/product
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 29 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
Treasury Management.indb 30 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
MODULE – B
TREASURY OPERATIONS
Units
4. Liquidity Management
5.	 Integrated Treasury – Cost Centre and Profit Centre
6. Treasury Instruments
7. Interest Rate Quotations and Market Terminology
8. Fixed Income Securities
9. Other Capital Market Instruments
10. Foreign Exchange (FX) Markets
11. Derivatives – An Overview
12. SWAP
13. Options
14. Fixed Income Securities, Duration and Convexity
15. Bond Portfolio Management
Chapter 1-15.indd 31 6/21/2018 3:40:43 PM
Treasury Management.indb 32 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE
4.0 Objective
4.1 Objective, Sources and Deployment
4.2 Funding the Balance Sheet
4.3 Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL—Netting/Elimination of Exposures
4.4 Network
4.5 Delivery Versus Payment III (DVP III) Settlement for Securities
4.6 Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
4.7 Indian Financial Network
4.8 Structured Financial Messaging System (SFMS)
4.9 Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
4
Treasury Management.indb 33 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
34 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
4.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide inputs on liquidity management, ways of funding the balance sheet, maintenance of 
CRR, SLR, penalties for CRR short fall, monetary control by RBI, Clearing Corporation of India 
(CCIL), CBLO, RTGS, etc.
4.1 OBJECTIVE, SOURCES AND DEPLOYMENT
Liquidity can be defined as the comprehensive ability of a bank to meet demand for funds on account 
of maturity of liabilities exactly when they fall due or when depositors want their money back. 
This is at the heart of banking operations and distinguishes a bank from other entities. The bank’s 
liquidity stems from the following:
• Cash in excess of CRR;
• Investments in SLR securities over and above the mandatory requirements. (These can be 
used for CBLO borrowing through CCIL or from the RBI’s LAF and under reverse repo from 
market);
• Prime assets – investments in T-bills, top-rated short-term paper and loans to top-rated 
companies;
• Swapping forex funds to INR;
• Undrawn lines from the RBI – Marginal Standing Facility;
• Undrawn lines from specialized FIs – IDBI, SIDBI, NABARD, Exim Bank, NHB, etc.;
• Money Market Lines of Credit from other Banks.
If in need of short-term liquidity, a bank can have recourse to any of the above sources.
The bank can also generate liquidity from asset sales, especially of short-term paper of high credit 
quality. While SLR securities with SGL/CCIL facilities can be used in CBLO or REPO and need 
not be sold for liquidity, other instruments may not be amenable for such facilities.
A bank may also have approved refinance facilities for other types of loans in the bank’s portfolio to 
small-scale units (from SIDBI), agriculture (from NABARD) and for imports/exports (from Exim 
Bank).
In a liquidity – short situation – a bank would naturally source the cheapest of the funds, after 
considering the call money market, repos, security (SLR and non-SLR) prices and the cost of 
refinance from the RBI and FIs.
In extraordinary situations, the bank may seek RBI liquidity support, on merits against the collateral 
of securities, under RBI repo and next level under MSF.
In a situation of surplus liquidity, the bank would look at the following options:
• Money market lending
• REPO
• Buying T-bills, CP or securities, depending upon the tenors of surplus liquidity
• Repaying refinance (if any)
• Resorting to Buy/Sell swaps in foreign currency
Treasury Management.indb 34 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 35
All the above, form part of the liquidity management system of a bank.
In order to have effective liquidity management, banks need to undertake periodic funds flow 
projections, taking into account movements in non-treasury assets and liabilities [fresh deposits, 
maturing deposits (and maturing) and new term loans] and maturing treasury assets and liabilities. 
This enables forward planning for CRR and SLR maintenance. The latter is especially crucial as 
timing is paramount in buying G-Secs given the volatility in their yields. If the bank expects yields 
to fall, it is better to buy SLR securities ahead of the actual need. Similarly, maturing assets can also 
be reinvested before their actual maturity (with inter-bank funding as the bridge).
4.2 FUNDING THE BALANCE SHEET
The bank’s balance sheet is funded not only by deposits but also by market borrowing – call/notice/
term money, inter-bank deposits, reverse repos and refinance. The latter assumes importance when 
the bank expands the portfolio of fixed income securities in anticipation of a fall in interest rates 
(which leads to price appreciation of the securities).
Forex funding is also resorted to when the USD/INR exchange rate is expected to be stable. On 
this view, the bank may create rupee assets from forex liabilities on an un-hedged basis, within the 
limits approved by RBI and the bank’s investment policy on such exposures. Conversely, the bank 
may borrow INR and convert into USD to invest short-term surpluses, if offshore interest rates are 
high, and INR is depreciating. These can be done not only for the purpose of day-to-day liquidity 
management but also for arbitrage.
(A) Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)
A scheduled bank (SCB) is under obligation to keep a cash reserve called the Statutory Cash Reserve, 
with the Reserve Bank as per provisions of section 42 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly every scheduled bank is required to maintain with the Reserve Bank an average daily 
balance equal to at least 3% of its net demand and time liabilities. Average daily balances mean the 
average of balances held at the close of business on each day of the fortnight. The Reserve Bank is 
empowered to increase the rate of Statutory Cash Reserve from 3% to 20% of the net Demand & 
Time liabilities.
Liabilities not to be included for DTL/NDTL computation
The under-noted liabilities will not form part of liabilities for the purpose of CRR and SLR:
(a) Paid up capital, reserves, any credit balance in the Profit & Loss Account of the bank, amount 
of any loan taken from the RBI and the amount of refinance taken from Exim Bank, NHB, 
NABARD, SIDBI;
(b) Net income tax provision;
(c) Amount received from DICGC towards claims and held by banks pending adjustments thereof;
(d) Amount received from ECGC by invoking the guarantee;
Treasury Management.indb 35 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
36 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(e) Amount received from insurance company on ad-hoc settlement of claims pending judgement 
of the Court;
(f) Amount received from the Court Receiver;
(g) The liabilities arising on account of utilization of limits under Bankers’ Acceptance Facility (BAF);
(h) District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) subsidy of Rs. 10,000 kept in Subsidy Reserve 
Fund account in the name of Self Help Groups;
(i) Subsidy released by NABARD under Investment Subsidy Scheme for Construction/
Renovation/Expansion of Rural Godowns;
( j) Net unrealized gain/loss arising from derivatives transaction under trading portfolio;
(k) Income flows received in advance such as annual fees and other charges which are not 
refundable;
(l) Bill rediscounted by a bank with eligible financial institutions as approved by RBI.
Exempted Categories
SCBs are exempted from maintaining CRR on the following liabilities:
(i) Liabilities to the banking system in India as computed under clause (d) of the explanation to 
Section 42(1) of the RBI Act, 1934;
(ii) Credit balances in ACU (US$) Accounts;
(iii) Demand and Time Liabilities in respect of their Offshore Banking Units (OBU);
(iv) The eligible amount of incremental FCNR (B) and NRE deposits of maturities of three years 
and above from the base date of July 26, 2013, and outstanding as on March 7, 2014, till their 
maturities/pre-mature withdrawals; and
(v) Minimum of Eligible Credit (EC) and outstanding Long term Bonds (LB) to finance 
Infrastructure Loans and affordable housing loans, as per the circular DBOD.BP.BC.
No.25/08.12.014/2014-15 dated July 15, 2014 extant instructions.
The objective of maintaining a minimum balance with RBI is basically to ensure the liquidity and 
solvency of the scheduled banks.
Demand Liabilities
Demand Liabilities include Current Deposits, Demand Liabilities portion of Saving Bank Deposits 
Margin held against LC, Balances in overdue FD, Cash Certificate and RD, Outstanding TTs, MTs 
and DDs, Unclaimed deposits, Credit Balances in CC accounts and Deposits held as security for 
advances which are repayable on demand. Money at Call and Short Notice from outside the banking 
system should be shown against liability to others.
Time Liabilities
Time Liabilities include Fixed Deposits, Cash Certificates, Cumulative and Recurring Deposits, 
Time Liabilities portion of Saving Bank Deposits, Staff Security Deposits, margins against LC not 
payable on demand, deposits held as securities for advances which are not payable on demand and 
Gold deposits.
Treasury Management.indb 36 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 37
Other Demand and Time Liabilities
Other Demand and Time Liabilities include interest accrued on deposits, Bills Payable, Unpaid 
Dividends, Suspense Account Balances, Participation Certificates issued to other banks without 
risk sharing basis, net credit balance in branch adjustment account, margins held on bills purchased 
or discounted, gold borrowed from abroad, cash collaterals received under derivative transactions 
and any amount due to the banking system which is not in the nature of deposits and borrowing.
Assets with the Banking System
Assets with the banking system include balances with banks in current account, balances with banks 
and notified financial institutions in other accounts, funds made available to banking system by 
way of loans or deposits repayable at call or short notice of a fortnight or less and loans other than 
money at call and short notice made available to the banking system. Any other amounts due from 
the banking system which cannot be classified under any of the above items are also to be taken as 
assets with the banking system.
Borrowings from abroad by banks in India
Loans/borrowings from abroad by banks in India will be considered as ‘liabilities to others’ and will 
be subject to reserve requirements. Upper Tier II instruments raised and maintained abroad shall be 
reckoned as liability for the computation of DTL for the purpose of reserve requirements.
Arrangements with Correspondent Banks for Remittance Facilities
When a bank accepts funds from a client under its remittance facilities scheme, it becomes a liability 
(liability to others) in its books. The liability of the bank accepting funds will extinguish only when 
the correspondent bank honours the drafts issued by the accepting bank to its customers. As such, 
the balance amount in respect of the drafts issued by the accepting bank on its correspondent bank 
under the remittance facilities scheme and remaining unpaid should be reflected in the accepting 
bank’s books as liability under the head ‘Liability to others in India’ and the same should also be 
taken into account for computation of DTL for CRR/SLR purpose.
The amount received by correspondent banks has to be shown as ‘Liability to the Banking System’ 
by them and not as ‘Liability to others’ and this liability could be netted off by the correspondent 
banks against the inter-bank assets.
Likewise sums placed by banks issuing drafts/interest/dividend warrants are to be treated as ‘Assets 
with banking system’ in their books and can be netted off from their inter-bank liabilities.
No interest is paid on CRR balances by Reserve Bank of India. The current mandatory requirement 
of CRR is 4%.
Every reporting fortnight starts on a Saturday, or, if it is a holiday, the next working day and ends 
on the following second Friday, (Thursday or the previous working day if Friday is a holiday), 
branches send their data on Deposits, etc. to Head Office. Banks prepare the NDTL position based 
Treasury Management.indb 37 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
38 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
on this data from the branches. Provisional NDTL returns are due to the RBI within seven days of 
the close of a reporting fortnight, while final returns must reach in 21 days.
The NDTL statement in Form A is prescribed by the RBI. There is a fixed format in which branches 
send data to the CRR/SLR cell responsible for the RBI returns.
The reference NDTL on which the prescribed percentage (presently 4%) has to be maintained as 
CRR for a fortnight is the NDTL as on the Reporting Friday with one fortnight lag. CRR is to be 
maintained in the form of Balances in Current Account with RBI. With a view to provide some 
flexibility in funds management, Banks have been given the leeway to maintain a minimum 95% 
of the mandated CRR on a daily basis, and making up the daily average balance during a fortnight 
to 100% by providing more than 100% on some other days during the same reporting fortnight.
Cost of CRR Maintenance
There is an opportunity cost involved in maintaining CRR. Assuming the nominal cost of a deposit 
of 100 to be 8%, the applicable CRR will be `4.00 (4 %). On this, no interest is paid by Reserve 
Bank of India. Effectively interest @ 8% is paid on `96 (net of CRR) which works out to 8.33% 
and is the effective cost of the deposit, although the nominal cost is only 8%. In general, the higher 
the CRR, the higher is the reserve adjusted (real) cost of deposits.
Penalties for CRR Shortfall
As the maintenance of CRR is mandatory, a bank cannot risk any non-compliance. The penalties 
for non-adherence to CRR stipulations are:
In case of default in maintenance of CRR requirement on a daily basis which is presently 95% of 
the total CRR requirement, penal interest will be recovered for that day at the rate of 3% p.a. above 
the Bank Rate on the amount by which the amount actually maintained falls short of the prescribed 
minimum on that day, and if the shortfall continues on the next succeeding day/s, penal interest will 
be recovered at a rate of 5% p.a. above the Bank Rate.
In cases of default in maintenance of CRR on average basis during a fortnight, penal interest will 
be recovered as envisaged in sub-section (3) of Section 42 of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
• In general, the RBI takes a very serious view of a bank’s failure to maintain CRR.
(B) Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
Section 24(2A) of Banking Regulation Act, 1949, requires every banking company in India to 
maintain such percentage not exceeding 40 per cent of its total Demand and Time Liabilities in 
specified assets as on the last Friday of the second preceding fortnight as the Reserve Bank may, by 
notification in the Official Gazette, specify from time to time. This is known as Statutory Liquidity 
Ratio and the specified assets include Cash (including net balances in current accounts with other 
SCBs in India), Gold valued at a price not exceeding the current market price or Unencumbered 
Treasury Management.indb 38 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 39
Approved Securities excluding securities (including margin) acquired under the RBI Liquidity 
Adjustment Facility. The present stipulated SLR is 19.50% which came into effect from the fortnight 
commencing October 14, 2017.
Banks are also permitted to exceed the limit of 25 per cent of the total investments under HTM 
category, provided the excess comprises of SLR securities and total SLR securities held under HTM 
category are not more than 20 per cent by December 31, 2017 and 19.5 per cent by March 31, 2018.
RBI can increase the stipulation of SLR (not exceeding 40%) and advise the banks to keep a large 
portion of the funds mobilized by them in liquid assets, particularly government and other approved 
securities. As a result funds available for credit would get reduced. All banks have to maintain certain 
portion of their deposits as SLR and have to invest that amount in these government securities. 
Government securities are sovereign securities, which are issued by RBI on behalf of Government 
of India, as part of the Central Government’s market borrowing program.
Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) securities include:
(i) Notified Dated securities issued up to May 6, 2011;
(ii) Treasury Bills of the Government of India;
(iii) Dated securities of the Government of India issued from time to time under the market 
borrowing programme and the Market Stabilization Scheme;
(iv) State Development Loans (SDLs) of the State Governments issued from time to time under 
the market borrowing programme; and
(v) Any other instrument as may be notified by the Reserve Bank of India.
The Central Government borrows funds to finance its fiscal deficit. The market borrowing of the 
Central Government is raised through the issue of dated securities and 364 days treasury bills either 
by auction or by floatation of fixed coupon loans, floating rate notes, index linked securities, etc.
In addition to the above, treasury bills of 91 days are issued for managing the temporary cash 
mismatches of the Government. These do not form part of the borrowing program of the Central 
Government.
The stipulated levels of Statutory Liquidity Ratio had reached a very high level of 38.5% during 
1991–92 and thereafter it was gradually brought down as a result of recommendation of Narasimham 
Committee. Various relaxations have been given over a period of time beginning April 1992.
Cost of SLR Maintenance
The impact of SLR on the cost of deposits depends on the yield on SLR investments.
To arrive at the effective cost of SLR, it is necessary to compare the current yield on SLR bonds 
and the cost of deposits. If this spread is negative, it would mean that the effective cost of deposits 
is more than the nominal cost. For example, if the current yield on SLR bonds is 8% and the 
cost of deposits is 9%, the loss is 1% on `19.50 (as SLR is 19.50%) out of `100 of deposits, i.e., 
`0.195. This loss must be made good on the non-SLR asset portfolio of Rs. 80.50, which must 
yield 9.195/80.50 = 11.42%, to cover the cost of the deposit. A negative current yield spread on the 
SLR portfolio is significant as SLR accounts for 19.50% of the liabilities at present prescriptions. 
Treasury Management.indb 39 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
40 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The present methodology of computing Marginal Cost based Lending Rates (MCLR) takes into 
account such reserve adjusted cost, being the negative carry on CRR and SLR. 100% of the stipulated 
SLR must be maintained on a daily basis throughout a reporting fortnight.
Monetary Control by RBI
RBI has several tools to inject liquidity into or withdraw liquidity from the market. Such operations 
are undertaken to bring the market liquidity and interest rates in line with the RBI’s monetary policy 
stance and interest rate objectives.
With the economy becoming more or less completely open to capital flows from abroad and their 
repatriation as well as capital outflows from residents, the short-term forex demand-supply balance 
has the potential to significantly affect the exchange rate, domestic liquidity and interest rates.
The liquidity management framework was modified in April 2016, providing assurance on both 
durable and frictional liquidity, while aiming to progressively lower the average ex-ante liquidity 
deficit in the system to a position closer to neutrality. Consistent with this assurance, the RBI 
proactively injects durable liquidity in the form of open market purchase operations, net forex market 
operations, and buyback of government securities.
The Reserve Bank is committed to reverting system liquidity to a position closer to neutrality, consistent 
with the stance of monetary policy. Towards this goal, the Reserve Bank employs a mix of instruments 
to ensure that all normal requirements of liquidity consistent with the growing economy are met:
(a) Management of effects of demonetization not taken care of by the expansion in currency in 
circulation, with variable reverse repo auctions with a preference for longer term tenors.
(b) Conducting Market Stabilisation Scheme (MSS) using Treasury Bills and dated securities to 
modulate liquidity from other sources.
(c) Need based management of durable liquidity through open market operations (OMO sales 
and purchases) to bring the system level liquidity closer to neutrality.
(d) Issuances of cash management bills (CMBs) of appropriate tenors.
(e) Modulation of day-to-day liquidity with the help of variable rate repo/reverse repo auctions 
of various maturities.
The Reserve Bank has also proposed the introduction of a Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) by suitably 
amending the RBI Act since November 2015, which is under examination of the Government. 
Introduction of this facility would give greater flexibility to the Reserve Bank for managing its 
liquidity operations.
4.3 CLEARING CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (CCIL—NETTING/ 
ELIMINATION OF EXPOSURES)
CCIL is an institution set up to clear outright and repo trades among market players on a guaranteed 
basis. Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) is a trading platform while CCIL is a Clearing House 
settling trades.
Treasury Management.indb 40 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 41
Products handled by CCIL are
(a) Domestic
• G-Secs/State Governments/T-Bills
• Outrights
• Repos/CBLOs
• RBI Auctions
(b) Forex
• USD/INR Spot, Cash and Tom
• Forward
CCIL has also introduced a dealing and trading platform for forex called FX Clear to deal in forex 
swaps.
4.3.1 FX CLEAR
FX Clear is similar in concept and operation to the NDS and enables Straight Through Processing 
(STP) once a deal is concluded.
FX Clear enables trading to be done through Order Matching Mode and Negotiation Mode. Order 
Matching Mode automatically matches the best bids and offers in the system, while the Negotiation 
Mode enables deals after agreement on prices, quantities, etc., between the counter parties.
In the Order Matching Mode, the dealer can specify his parameters: minimum selling price, maximum 
buying price, stop loss and take profit levels. These can be time/date- constrained. Several query and 
report facilities are available to dealers in FX Clear: trades, activity log, settlement, etc. At present, all 
money market and debt market deals are transacted on Negotiated Dealing System – Order Matching 
(NDS OM) platform and settled through Straight Through Processing (STP).
A major advantage of FX Clear is that once a deal is put through, it is settled suo moto, i.e., with no 
further actions required on the part of the dealer or back-office. In other words, it is a STP system. 
At present FX Clear covers only USD/INR spot and forward. Tom, cash and crosses will be added 
in due course.
At present, FX Clear covers the inter-bank US Dollar-Indian Rupee (USD-INR) Spot and Swap 
transactions and transactions in major cross currencies (EUR/USD, USD/JPY, GBP/USD, etc.).
The new version of FX-CLEAR platform launched w.e.f. 6th April 2015, offers guaranteed settlement 
from the point of trade for all the trades concluded on the Order Matching Mode of the platform, 
wherein these trades shall be automatically sent to Clearing Corporation. Accordingly, Clearing 
Corporation (CCIL) shall be the Counterparty for these Trades.
4.3.2 FX-SWAP
FX-SWAP, a forex swap dealing system, which was launched by Clearcorp on May 31, 2010, offers 
an order matching platform for forex swaps. This platform endeavours to provide a transparent and 
Treasury Management.indb 41 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
42 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
anonymous medium for trading in the highly broker driven swaps market by offering swap instruments 
extending up to 12 months along-with three upto spot instruments viz Cash/Tom, Cash/Spot, Tom/
Spot, a LD/LD instrument (Month 1 end over Month 2 end) and two ORF instruments (Month 1 
end and Month 2 end). FX-SWAP platform was launched with a unique feature of guarantee from 
the point of trades for the Forward Legs of the transactions concluded on the platform.
The new version of FX-SWAP platform launched w.e.f. 6th April 2015, extends the benefits of 
guaranteed settlement from the point of trade to all the legs of the trades concluded on the platform, 
including Cash, Tom, Spot and Forwards, wherein these trades shall be automatically sent to Clearing 
Corporation. Accordingly, Clearing Corporation (CCIL) shall be the Counterparty for these Trades.
4.4 NETWORK
(a) G-Secs/State Governments
The NDS/CCIL network spans the entire country. Deals can be logged into the NDS by banks 
from anywhere through their connectivity to RBI servers after which no manual intervention 
by banks is necessary to complete the settlement.
(b) Forex
INFINET, a secured closed-user group operated by IDRBT, covers the entire country. Banks, 
which are members of INFINET, can clear their USD/INR trades through CCIL.
4.4.1 Novation and Multilateral Netting
CCIL applies the concepts of novation and multilateral netting in its operations. Novation introduces 
CCIL as the intermediary responsible for clearing and settlement of trades between two counter 
parties. In effect, for settlement purposes, the counter party to a bank doing a trade with another 
bank is CCIL. CCIL takes responsibility for delivery, making and receiving payments to and from 
the counter parties for all transactions effected through the NDS and INFINET (for forex).
Multilateral Netting process, nets out the sums payable and receivable by each member to arrive at 
the net amount to be paid or received by the member.
4.4.2 Margins
Apart from settlement of trades, another major function of a Clearing Corporation is to reduce risks 
of its members from failed trades arising out of the defaults by their counterparties. By becoming 
central counterparty to the trades done by its members, the Corporation absorbs risk. It manages the 
risks through its risk management processes in such a manner that the ultimate risk to its members 
from fails is either eliminated or reduced to the minimum. Risk Management Department in CCIL 
has been entrusted with the responsibility of designing the Risk processes and its execution. The 
department is also responsible for keeping the processes efficient, current and user friendly. Margins 
are deposits kept in the form of liquid securities and cash with CCIL for performance of contracts. 
The details of margins are as under.
Treasury Management.indb 42 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 43
During the settlement processes, CCIL assumes certain risks which may arise due to a default by 
a member to honour its obligations. Settlement being on Delivery Versus Payment basis, the risk 
from a default is the market risk (change in price of the concerned security). CCIL processes are 
designed to cover the market risk through its margining process.
CCIL collects Initial Margin and Mark to Market Margin (both Intraday and EOD) from members 
in respect of their outstanding trades. Initial Margin is collected to cover the likely risk from future 
adverse movement of prices of the concerned securities. Mark to Market Margin is collected to 
cover the notional loss (i.e., the difference between the current market price and the contract price 
of the security covered by the trade) already incurred by a member. Both the margins are computed 
trade-wise and then aggregated member-wise.
In case of sudden volatility, Intraday Mark to Market Margin is collected if the difference between 
the Mark to Market Margin at previous EOD and intra-day Mark to Market Margin is greater than 
a specified threshold level of the initial margin as at previous EOD. In addition, CCIL may also 
collect Volatility Margin in case of unusual volatility in the market.
Members are required to keep balances in Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) in such a manner 
that the same is enough to cover the requirements for both Initial Margin and Mark-to-Market 
Margin for the trades done by such members. In case of any shortfall, CCIL makes margin call 
and the concerned member is required to meet the shortfall before the specified period of the 
next working day. Members’ contribution to the SGF is in the form of eligible Govt. of India 
Securities/T-Bills and cash, with cash being not less than 10 % of the total margin requirement 
at any point of time.
Another important risk emanating from the process is Liquidity Risk. To ensure uninterrupted 
settlement, CCIL is required to arrange for liquidity both in terms of funds and securities. CCIL 
has arranged for Lines of Credit from Banks to enable it to meet any reasonable shortfall of funds 
arising out of a default by a member either in its Securities Segment or Forex Segment. In regard 
to the Securities Segment, member’s contributions to SGF is mainly in the form of securities and 
through the list of specified securities acceptable for contribution to SGF, CCIL ensures that the 
most liquid securities in which a significant portion of the trades are settled are likely to be available 
in the SGF. For requirements of other securities, CCIL has put in place a limited purpose security 
borrowing arrangement with two major market participants.
G-SECS
CCIL collects an initial margin based on the outstanding trades awaiting settlement to cover the 
likely adverse price movements of securities. This margin must be kept in the ratio 90:10 between 
securities and cash. Securities must form part of an Eligible List of Securities, which is changed 
from time to time.
In addition to Initial Margin, CCIL requires Mark to Market margin to top up the initial margin, 
wherever the margined securities diminish in value because of market fluctuations. If price movements 
are excessive, CCIL could also impose a volatility margin.
Treasury Management.indb 43 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
44 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The margin required on open (i.e., to be settled) positions in securities is calculated based on the 
margin factors applicable to each security awaiting settlement. The margin factors are continuously 
revised to reflect the latest price trends in the market. In case there is a shortfall, CCIL requires the 
bank to top up the margin before settling the trade. In general, the margin required for trading in 
short-term securities is less than that for medium and long-term securities as the price variations in 
the latter are more.
Forex
A net debit cap is calculated for the bank, taking into account its net worth, capital adequacy and other 
financial parameters. The bank’s short USD position should not exceed the net debit cap. Members 
of CCIL Forex Segment are required to contribute their margin obligations to CCIL’s dedicated SGF 
maintained for its Forex Segment in accordance with the advices by CCIL from time to time. Such 
contribution is a factor of the concerned Member’s Net Debit Cap. Forex Segment SGF contribution 
is currently payable in the form of US Dollar funds only.
Currently CCIL has stipulated a cash:securities Settlement Guarantee Fund composition ratio of 
5:95 of the margin requirement for Forex Forward Segment. For Continuous Linked Settlement 
Segment, no Cash: Securities composition has been prescribed.
4.5 DELIVERY VERSUS PAYMENT III (DVP III) SETTLEMENT 
FOR SECURITIES
CCIL follows DVP III for settling securities transactions. In this system, only the nets are settled, 
i.e., the bank receives (pays) the net credit (debit) on funds and delivers (receives) the net due 
(receivable) on individual securities.
Under DVP 1, Securities and Funds were Gross settled. Under DVP 2, Securities were Gross settled, 
while funds were Net settled. Under DVP 3, both securities and Funds are Net settled.
4.5.1 Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF)
Members of CCIL’s Securities Segment are required to deposit their margin contributions into 
CCIL’s Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) maintained for this business segment. Individual member 
contributions is a function of their outstanding trade obligations based on the types of trades, securities 
involved and value dates of settlement. Members are expected to always maintain adequate balances 
in their SGF to cover their outstanding trade exposures. Margins are required to be maintained by 
every member for their own trades as well as trades reported by them on behalf of their constituents.
SGF is received in the form of both cash and securities. Members settling their funds obligations 
at Reserve Bank of India contribute their SGF Cash collateral in CCIL’s RTGS Settlement Account 
with Reserve Bank of India. Whereas members settling their funds obligations at settlement bank(s) 
(commonly known as Multi Modal Settlement Bank mode of settlement) contribute their SGF cash 
Treasury Management.indb 44 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 45
collateral in CCIL’s Current Account with respective settlement bank. Minimum cash collateral 
contribution of `1 Lac needs to be maintained by a member at all times during currency of their 
membership to CCIL’s Securities Segment.
SGF security contributions from all members are received and maintained in CCIL’s Constituent 
SGL (CSGL) Account maintained with Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
Securities Segment SGF contributions are also utilized towards member’s margin requirement in 
CCIL’s Continuous Linked Settlement (CLS) and Forex Forward Segment(s).
CCIL operates a Settlement Guarantee Fund, made up of contributions from participating institutions 
in the form of Cash and Securities as mentioned in para 4.4.2 above. In the event of any likely 
shortage of securities or Currency in respect of forex settlements, CCIL will draw from the SGF to 
honour the trade. A gridlock may arise in the payment and settlement systems if there is temporary 
shortage of cash balance in the designated account. Member banks are to overcome this by resorting 
to Intra Day Loans (IDLs), which are to be repaid in full before the end of the day.
CCIL guarantees only those trades supported by adequate margins of counterparties. Whenever the 
volume traded by a member bank is higher than daily average in the past or the Dollar short position 
exceeds the Net Debit Cap set for itself, CCIL will call for top up margins in order to continue to 
offer settlement guarantee for all outstanding trades.
4.5.2 Risk Management
(a) Securities
As settlement is of the DVPIII type, counterparty credit risk is absent, but market risk exists. Initial 
Margin, Mark to Market Margin and Volatility Margin enable CCIL to cope with market risk, i.e., 
price fluctuations of securities involved in settlement.
In the event of depreciation of margin securities, CCIL makes margin calls to be honoured by the 
respective bank within a specified time on the next working day.
CCIL also has raised credit lines to put through settlements if there are shortfalls of securities and 
funds.
(b) Forex
As in the case of securities, the margins for forex settlement offer almost full protection against 
counterparty credit risk. CCIL will draw on its credit lines through the margins to settle US$ liabilities 
in the event of any shortfall to put through settlement. CCIL also has recourse to the defaulting 
bank’s RBI account for this purpose.
COLLATERALIZED BORROWING AND LENDING OBLIGATION (CBLO) With the 
restrictions on call money borrowing and lending imposed by the RBI, repos have increasingly 
come into vogue in the money market.
Treasury Management.indb 45 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
46 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
CCIL1
 has designed a product called Collateralized Borrowing and Lending Obligation (CBLO) 
to facilitate banking and non-banking entities to borrow from and lend funds to the inter-bank and 
money markets after they have reached the limits of unsecured lending and borrowing.
4.6 REAL TIME GROSS SETTLEMENT (RTGS)
The Real Time Gross Settlement system has been launched by the Reserve Bank of India on March 
26, 2004, in Indian financial market, after a comprehensive audit and review of the software and 
also after conducting extensive training of users at commercial banks.
RTGS provides for an electronic-based settlement of inter-bank and customer-based transactions 
with intra-day collateralized liquidity support from the RBI to the participants of the system. RTGS 
system has also been enabled for Straight Through Processing (STP) of customer transactions without 
manual intervention. Today more than 90% of the inter-bank funds transfer are settled on RTGS, 
which were being earlier routed through the net-settlement based inter-bank clearing at Mumbai.
RTGS is a system of transferring funds from one Bank/Financial Institution (FI) to another on an 
immediate basis. In this system, the inter-bank payment instructions are processed and settled, 
transaction-by-transaction, one-by-one, continuously, i.e., in real time. In other words, these 
transactions are settled individually without netting debits against credits.
RTGS system will be fully integrated with the accounting system of the Reserve Bank of India 
and other settlement services, such as Deferred Net Settlement (DNS) systems, the settlement of 
which would be performed as RTGS transactions through a facility for Multi-Lateral Net Settlement 
(MLNS) Batch Processing.
RTGS system makes use of the state-of-the-art solution by using INFINET as its secure communication 
backbone; it also uses Structured Financial Messaging Solutions (SFMS) as the secure messaging 
system, IBM’s S/390 mainframe system as the robust platform at the back-end for implementation, 
Quaestor, a product from the solution developer, Logical India, to be customized and used as the 
front end for solution. A MQ Series would act as the gluing interface between the various components 
of the solution. RTGS system has several unique features. It is a single, all-India system, with the 
settlement being effected in Mumbai. The payments are settled transaction by transaction. The 
settlement of funds is final and irrevocable. As the settlement is done in real time, funds settled 
can be further used immediately. It is a fully secure system which uses digital signatures and PKIbased encryption, for safe and secure message transmission. It provides for intra-day collateralized 
liquidity support for the member-banks to smoothen the temporary mismatches of fund flows and 
thereby ensuring smooth settlements. Under the RTGS system, inter-bank transactions, customerbased inter-bank transactions and net- clearing transactions can be settled. Both high value and retail 
payments can be effected through the RTGS system. Thus, it provides less risk-based funds transfers 
for both banks and for their customers, apart from providing for more efficient funds management 
at the treasuries of banks.
1 www.ccilindia.com is CCIL’s website and gives complete information on its constitution, charter, membership, 
rules and regulations, risk management, products, services and future plans.
Treasury Management.indb 46 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 47
4.6.1 IDRBT as Certifying Authority (CA)
The Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) at Hyderabad 
has become the Certifying Authority for the banking and financial sector for all the applications 
implemented over the INFINET. The INFINET provides for the communications backbone for all 
the Systemically Important Payment System Applications.
It is clear that banks will have to take urgent steps to ensure that all banks’ branches, including those 
in the countryside, are networked. Further, the security infrastructure for message transfer in the form 
of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), as per IDRBT CA, will also have to be urgently implemented in 
all organizations, covering all the branches, which will be offering RTGS services to the customers.
4.6.2 Essential Components of RTGS
• Membership of Indian Financial System Network (INFINET)
• Establishment of Payments Gateway
• Branch Connectivity with Payments Gateway
• Use of Structured Financial Messaging System (SFMS) as a Common Message Format.
• Use of Electronic Coding and Decoding Technology
• Unique Identification of Bank’s Branch for RTGS
4.6.3 Types of Transactions Covered Under RTGS
(a) Inter-bank Payments
(b) Customer to Customer Transfers
(c) Own Account Transfers
(d) Multilateral Net Settlement Batches (MNSB)
4.6.4 Functioning of RTGS
Each bank has to open a separate RTGS account with the RBI. This will be an exclusive and dedicated 
account for settlement of RTGS transactions. This account will be an intra-day account, i.e., the account 
will have to be funded at the beginning of the day and the balances left in the account will be swept 
back to the regular current account at the end of the day. Thus, this account will show NIL balance at the 
end of any day. However, banks have to make suitable arrangements to ensure that adequate balance is 
always available in this account for meeting the settlement of transactions. In case adequate funds are 
not available to settle the payment transactions, RTGS system will send a message to Security Settlement 
System, where an intra-day liquidity (IDL) will be allowed against the securities. Banks have to ensure 
that the outstanding under IDL are settled on the same day lest the same should attract penalty.
4.7 INDIAN FINANCIAL NETWORK
IDRBT has taken the initiative to setup a communication backbone (Indian Financial Network, 
popularly known as INFINET) using both V-SATs and terrestrial leased line technology to provide 
Treasury Management.indb 47 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
48 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
wide area network connectivity exclusively for the use of a closed user group – the entities in the 
Indian Banking and Financial Sector. The earth station is located at Hyderabad and all the banks and 
financial institutions are members in the network. This being a network of exclusive user group and is 
being managed by IDRBT, the public do not have access. INFINET becomes a reliable communication 
backbone and the transactions or messages passed through this network are safe and secure.
4.8 STRUCTURED FINANCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM (SFMS)
Banking community is familiar with the use of SWIFT messages and formats in the case of 
International Financial Messages. IDRBT has developed a secure messaging backbone for the Indian 
Banking and Financial Sector and named it Structured Financial Messaging System (SFMS). IDRBT 
has studied the various applications requiring messaging, reviewed the existing message formats and 
designed various standard message formats for communicating messages across the banks. As the 
messages mainly relate to financial transactions, taking into consideration the security aspects, the 
messaging system is further fortified by providing facilities such as encryption and digital signatures.
4.9 PUBLIC KEY INFRASTRUCTURE (PKI)
In the physical world the signature of a person is used and associated to establish identity and 
credibility of the individual.
‘Creating Trust’ in an electronic environment involves assuring the transacting entities about 
confidentiality of the transaction, along with authentication of the sending and receiving entities such 
that both entities cannot repudiate the transaction. The technology used to achieve this trust is PKI.
PKI is an online infrastructure using encryption digital signatures and digital certificates. The 
paper-based concepts of identification, declaration and proof are carried through the use of digital 
signatures in electronic environment. Digital signatures are created and verified using Public Key 
Cryptography. A combination of many factors are taken and two pairs of keys – Public Key and 
Private Key – are generated using the algorithm. The two pairs will remain unique – i.e., no two 
pairs will be similar.
The keys are generated once and the private key is directly downloaded on to the smart card or 
system. The owner of a smart card is expected to take care of its protection. Public key is stored in 
the repository of the issuer and is available to everyone.
The private key is used for digitally signing a document, while the public key is used for verifying 
the digital signature.
Digital signature is more a system process than just affixing of a signature. When a document is 
digitally signed, the digital software scans the documents and creates a calculation, which represents 
the document. The calculation becomes part of the digital signature. When the recipient authenticates 
(verifies) the signature, a similar process is carried out. The sender’s and the receiver’s calculations 
are then compared. If the results are the same, the signature is treated as valid. If they are different, 
the signature is treated as invalid.
Treasury Management.indb 48 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 49
Any scheduled bank can be a member of RTGS which will be connected to Central HUB of RBI 
through INFINET via Payments Gateway of each Bank. The branches identified for RTGS will 
have connectivity to their Payments Gateway, viz., designated branch/office. Communication will 
be based on Structured Financial Message System (SFMS) formats.
Let Us Sum Up
Current CRR is 4%. No interest is paid on CRR balances with Reserve Bank of India. The cost of CRR 
has to be factored into pricing the products. There are penalties for shortfall in CRR maintenance. 
Banks have to adhere to SLR stipulation prevailing from time to time, presently 19.50%. CCIL is 
an institution set up to clear outright and repo trades amongst market players on a guaranteed basis. 
RTGS provides for an electronic based settlement of interbank and customer-based transactions 
with intra-day collateralized liquidity support from RBI. IDRBT is the certifying authority for the 
banking and financial sector for all applications implemented over INFINET.
Keywords
CRR, SLR, NDTL, Standing Deposit Facility, Market Stabilization Fund (MSF), NDS(OM), Novation 
and multi-lateral netting, DVP, SGF, RTGS, INFINET and IDRBT Structured Financial Messaging 
System (SFMS) and Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. The Bank’s balance sheet is funded not only by deposits, but also by what?
(a) Market borrowings
(b) Help from RBI
(c) Assistance from Head Office
(d) Contributions from peer banks
2. What is the main objective of maintaining minimum balance in the form of CRR with 
regulators?
(a) To increase the profitability of scheduled banks
(b) Basically to ensure the liquidity and solvency of the scheduled banks
(c) To eliminate inter-bank competitiveness in the market
(d) To popularize deposit insurance mechanism
3. What is the purpose of Central Government borrowing funds from the market?
(a) Generally to help build up forex reserves
(b) Generally to exercise tight control over the banking system
(c) Generally to finance its fiscal deficit
(d) Generally to ensure equitable distribution of wealth among its subjects
Treasury Management.indb 49 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
50 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
4. A net debit cap is calculated by CCIL for the bank, taking into account its net worth, capital 
adequacy and other financial parameters. What should not exceed the net debit cap?
(a) Bank’s long USD position
(b) Bank’s stop loss limit
(c) Bank’s overnight open position
(d) Bank’s short USD position
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 50 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
 INTEGRATED
TREASURY – COST
CENTRE AND PROFIT
CENTRE
STRUCTURE
5.0 Objective
5.1 Functions of Integrated Treasury
5.2 Nature of Integration
5.3 Benefits of Integration
5.4 Structure of Integrated Treasury
5.5 Arbitrage Benefit to Treasury
5.6 Initiatives of Integrated Treasury
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
5
Treasury Management.indb 51 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
52 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
5.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide information on integrated treasury operations, other activities like risk management, 
transfer pricing, devising and dealing in derivative products, utilizing arbitrage opportunities and 
maintain capital adequacy.
Integrated treasury is a holistic approach to funding the balance sheet and deployment of funds 
across the domestic as well as global money and forex markets. This approach enables the bank to 
optimise its asset-liability management and also capitalize on arbitrage opportunities.
Traditionally, the forex dealing room of a bank managed the foreign exchange dealings mainly arising 
out of merchant transactions (forex buying from and selling to customers) and consequent cover 
operations in interbank market. The domestic treasury/investment operations were independent of 
forex dealings of a bank. The treasury operations were treated as a cost center, specifically devoted to 
reserve management (CRR and SLR) and consequent fund management. The treasury also undertook 
investment in government and non-government securities.
The need for integration of forex dealings and domestic treasury operations has arisen on account 
of interest rate deregulations, liberalization of exchange control, development of forex market, 
introduction of derivative products and technological advancement in settlement systems and dealing 
environment. The integrated treasury performs not only the traditional roles of forex dealing room 
and treasury unit but also many other functions.
5.1 FUNCTIONS OF INTEGRATED TREASURY
(a) Reserve Management and Investment: This is an important function. It involves:
(i) Complying with CRR/SLR obligations,
(ii) Having an appropriate mix of investment portfolio to optimize yield and duration. Duration 
analysis is used as a tool to monitor the price sensitivity of an investment instrument to 
interest rate changes.
(b) Liquidity and Funds Management: It involves:
(i) Analyzing of major cash flows arising out of asset-liability transactions,
(ii) Providing a balanced and well-diversified liability base to fund the various assets in the 
balance sheet of the bank, and
(iii) Providing policy inputs to the strategic planning group of the bank on funding mix 
(currency, tenor and cost) and yield expected in credit and investment.
(c) Asset Liability Management: ALM calls for determining the optimal size and growth rate 
of the balance sheet and also price the assets and liabilities in accordance with prescribed 
guidelines.
(d) Risk Management: Integrated treasury manages all market risks associated with a bank’s 
liabilities and assets. The market risk of liabilities pertains to floating interest rate risks and 
asset and liability mismatches. Market risk for assets can arise from:
(i) unfavorable change in interest rates,
(ii) increasing levels of disintermediation,
(iii) Securitization of assets,
Treasury Management.indb 52 6/19/2018 6:23:59 PM
INTEGRATED TREASURY – COST CENTRE AND PROFIT 53
(iv) emergence of credit derivatives, etc.
While the credit risk assessment continues to be in the domain of Credit Department, 
the treasury would monitor the cash inflow impact from changes in asset prices due to 
interest rate changes by adhering to prudential exposure limits.
(e) Transfer Pricing: The treasury has to ensure that the funds of the bank are deployed optimally, 
without sacrificing yield or liquidity. An integrated treasury unit has an idea of the bank/s 
overall funding needs as well as direct access to various markets (like money market, capital 
market, forex market, credit market). Hence, ideally the treasury should provide benchmark 
rates, after assuming market risk, to various business groups and product categories about 
the correct business strategy to adopt.
(f) Derivative Products: The treasury can develop Interest Rate Swap (IRS) and other rupee 
based/cross-currency derivative products for hedging bank’s own exposures and also offer/
sell such products to customers/other banks.
(g) Arbitrage: Treasury units of banks undertake arbitrage by simultaneous buying and selling 
of the same type of assets in two different markets in order to make profit. Arbitrage could 
also help in risk management.
(h) Capital Adequacy: This function focuses on quality of assets, with Return on Assets (ROA) 
being a key criterion for measuring the efficiency of deployed fund.
An integrated treasury is a major profit center. It should have its own profit and loss measurement. 
It may undertake deals or take exposures through proprietary trading (deals done to make profits 
out of movements in market interest/exchange rates) that may not be required for general banking.
5.2 NATURE OF INTEGRATION
Integration of treasury can take many shapes. To start with, there is geographical and infrastructural 
integration. In this type of integration, the forex dealing rooms are merged and located in the same 
premises along with the domestic treasury unit.
Under horizontal integration the dealing/trading rooms engaged in the same trading activity are 
brought under the same policies, hierarchy, technological and accounting platform.
In vertical integration all existing and diverse trading and arbitrage activities are brought under one 
control with common pool of funding and contributions. The impact of transactions of all units on 
rupee funds is merged. There is computerized linking of transactions.
Independent Forex Role
Independent Investment 
Treasury Role Integrated Role
Merchant Dealing Funds Management ALM in INR and FOREX
Corporate FX Trading Liquidity/CRR/SLR Management FCNR SWAP Management
Proprietary Trading SLR/Non SLR investments Overseas Borrowing
Non- INR dealing Trading in Securities Dealing in Derivatives
Trading in Equities Arbitrage
Derivatives INR
Treasury Management.indb 53 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
54 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
5.3 BENEFITS OF INTEGRATION
The basic objective of integration is to improve portfolio profitability, risk-insulation and synergize 
banking assets with trading assets. Banking assets are held basically for client relationship/steady 
income/statutory obligations and are generally held till maturity, whereas trading assets are held 
primarily for generating profits on short-term differences in prices/yields. The purpose is achieved 
through efficient utilization of funds, cost effective sourcing of liability, proper transfer pricing, 
availing arbitrage opportunities, online and offline exchange of information between the money 
and forex dealers, single window service to customers, effective MIS, improved internal control, 
minimization of risks and better regulatory compliance. An integrated treasury acts as a center of 
arbitrage and hedging activities. It seeks to maximize its currency portfolio and free transfer of funds 
from one currency to another in order to remain a proactive profit center. With phased liberalization 
on capital account convertibility, there will be scope for banks with integrated treasury to structure 
multi-currency balance sheets and take advantage of strategic positioning.
5.4 STRUCTURE OF INTEGRATED TREASURY
The treasury branch is manned by the front-office, mid-office, back-office and audit group. The 
dealers and traders constitute the front-office. In the course of their buying and selling transactions, 
they are the first point of interface with other participants in the market (dealers of other banks, 
brokers and customers). They report to their department heads. They also interact among themselves 
to exploit arbitrage opportunities. A mid-office set-up, independent of the treasury unit, acts as 
the unit responsible for risk monitoring, measurement and analysis and reports directly to the top 
Management for control, through the Chief Risk Officer. This unit provides risk assessment to Asset 
Liability Committee (ALCO) and is responsible for daily tracking of risk exposures, individually as 
well as collectively. The back-office undertakes accounting, settlement and reconciliation operations. 
The audit group independently inspects/audits daily operations in the treasury department to ensure 
adherence to internal/regulatory systems and procedures.
5.5 ARBITRAGE BENEFIT TO TREASURY
The price differentials between different markets of the same asset category give rise to arbitrage 
opportunities.
For example, arbitrage benefit can be availed by borrowing in US dollar, converting the same into 
rupee, taking forward cover to hedge exchange risk and investing the same in domestic market. 
However, efficient functioning of financial markets generates asset prices and exchange rates that 
could preclude arbitrage.
5.5.1 What is ‘Arbitrage’
Arbitrage is the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset to profit from a difference in the price. It 
is a trade that profits by exploiting the price differences of identical or similar financial instruments 
on different markets or in different forms. Arbitrage exists as a result of market inefficiencies.
Treasury Management.indb 54 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
INTEGRATED TREASURY – COST CENTRE AND PROFIT 55
5.5.2 BREAKING DOWN ‘Arbitrage’
Arbitrage provides a mechanism to ensure prices do not deviate substantially from fair value for 
long periods of time. With advancements in technology, it has become extremely difficult to profit 
from pricing errors in the market. Many traders have computerized trading systems set to monitor 
fluctuations in similar financial instruments. Any inefficient pricing setups are usually acted upon 
quickly, and the opportunity is often eliminated in a matter of seconds. Arbitrage is a necessary force 
in the financial marketplace.
As a simple example of arbitrage, consider the following. The stock of Company X is trading at $20 
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) while, at the same moment, it is trading for $20.05 on the 
London Stock Exchange (LSE). A trader can buy the stock on the NYSE and immediately sell the 
same shares on the LSE, earning a profit of 5 cents per share. The trader could continue to exploit 
this arbitrage until the specialists on the NYSE run out of inventory of Company X’s stock, or until 
the specialists on the NYSE or LSE adjust their prices to wipe out the opportunity.
5.5.3 A Complicated Arbitrage Example
Though this is not the most complicated arbitrage strategy in use, this example of triangular arbitrage 
is more difficult than the above example. In triangular arbitrage, a trader converts one currency to 
another at one bank, converts that second currency to another at a second bank, and finally converts 
the third currency back to the original at a third bank. The same bank would have the information 
efficiency to ensure all of its currency rates were aligned, requiring the use of different financial 
institutions for this strategy.
For example, assume you begin with $2 million. You see that at three different institutions the 
following currency exchange rates are immediately available:
Institution 1: Euros/USD = 0.894
Institution 2: Euros/British pound = 1.276
Institution 3: USD/British pound = 1.432
First, you would convert the $2 million to euros at the 0.894 rate, giving you 1,788,000 euros. 
Next, you would take the 1,788,000 euros and convert them to pounds at the 1.276 rate, giving you 
1,401,254 pounds. Next, you would take the pounds and convert them back to U.S. dollars at the 
1.432 rate, giving you $2,006,596. Your total risk-free arbitrage profit would be $6,596.
5.6 INITIATIVES OF INTEGRATED TREASURY
Many banks in India have taken the initiative to set up their integrated treasury operations supported 
by infrastructural facilities like Reuters/Telerate/Bloomberg System, hotlines, Dealing Boards, 
Internet, etc., and dedicated software for integrated treasury. Payment systems like Negotiated 
Dealing System (NDS), Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) and new initiatives like Real 
Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) are already in place.
Treasury Management.indb 55 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
56 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Let Us Sum Up
Functions of integrated treasury include reserve management, liquidity and funds management, 
Asset liability management, risk management, transfer pricing, using derivative products, taking 
advantage of arbitrage between domestic and foreign exchange markets and trying to achieve capital 
efficiency. The basic objective of integration is to improve portfolio profitability, risk insulation and 
synergise banking assets.
Keywords
Cost center, profit center, integrated treasury, Asset liability management, transfer pricing, derivative 
products, arbitrage
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. How is CRR, the maintenance of which is important treasury function, computed?
(a) On Net Demand and Time Liabilities
(b) On time liabilities of one year and above
(c) On the total cash reserves held by the bank
(d) On the gross non-performing assets of the bank
2. The capital adequacy ratio of a bank broadly indicates what?
(a) Room for development of business
(b) Quality of asset base
(c) Efficiency of risk management policy
(d) Competitive advantage
3. What are the general benefits of integrated treasury?
(a) Savings of establishment charges
(b) Regulatory compliance
(c) Improved profitability and risk insulation
(d) Comfort of automated functioning
4. What is meant by arbitrage?
(a) Simultaneous purchase and sale of assets
(b) Purchasing an asset at its cheapest rate
(c) Sourcing an asset from a tax haven country
(d) Simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset to profit from difference in price
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 56 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
 TREASURY 
INSTRUMENTS
STRUCTURE
6.0 Objective
6.1 Money Market – Instruments
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
6
Treasury Management.indb 57 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
58 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
6.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide detailed information on money market instruments like call money, notice money, term 
money, Bank fixed deposits, certificate of deposits, commercial papers, BRDS, IBPCs, CBLO, 
treasury bills, repos, etc. The chapter also deals with interest rate quotations, market terminology, 
day count methods, bonds, non-SLR securities, corporate debentures, equities, preference shares, 
ECBs, GDRs, ADRs, IDRs, forex markets, derivatives, etc.
6.1 MONEY MARKET – INSTRUMENTS
There are a number of players in the money market and in addition the market is also characterised 
by a number of instruments. These instruments have specific characteristics, roles and nuances. The 
types and characteristics of important instruments in the market are explained hereunder:
6.1.1 Call Money/Notice Money
Call money or call deposits are those moneys which are lent where the borrower has to repay the 
funds when called on to do so by the lender. On the other hand, ‘Notice Money’ refers to those 
moneys where the lender has to give a certain number of days’ notice, which has been agreed 
on at the time of the contract, to the borrower to repay the funds. However, in the Indian money 
market, Call/Notice money refers to that transaction wherein the money is lent/borrowed between 
participants, permitted to operate in the Call/Notice money market, for tenors ranging from overnight 
to a maximum of fourteen days.
A major portion of the transactions in the call market are for an overnight tenor, i.e. the borrower 
repays principal and interest on the next day of the transaction. This market is used by participants 
to manage their daily funding mismatches and to comply with CRR stipulations. Resorting to the 
call/notice money transactions reflects temporary mismatch of funds during the short period of 1 to 
14 days, as the case may be. The participants, who have surplus, lend money to adjust the mismatch 
for the relative period. The participants who are short of funds, on the other hand, would borrow 
funds for the relative period.
The rate at which the funds will be deployed or borrowed will be driven by demand and supply 
of funds and determined on the basis of the market conditions at a given point of time. When the 
market is highly liquid, funds would be easily available whereas funds will be difficult to obtain in 
tight money market conditions. The rates will be low in easy money (liquid) market and the rates 
would be high in tight money market. A liquid market can turn tight even overnight due to sudden 
changes in the financial environment, the policy of the central monetary authority or the government 
or even other external factors which have an impact on the financial market.
In the past, financial institutions were allowed as lenders in the Call Money market. However, recently 
the Call/Notice money market has been made a pure inter-bank market. Only Scheduled Commercial 
Banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks), Co-operative Banks (other than Land Development Banks) 
and Primary Dealers are permitted to operate in this market as both borrowers and lenders. The 
placement of money/lending in the call/notice money market is unsecured.
Treasury Management.indb 58 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 59
Call money is not secured and could pose some threats. Therefore, as a prudential measure, each 
lender fixes a placement/counter party exposure for each borrower. This limit denotes the maximum 
amount the lender would lend to a specified borrower.
In addition to the exposure limits, there is also a regulatory limit on the amount a Bank can lend 
and borrow in the call/notice money market. Accordingly, in a reporting fortnight the average daily 
borrowing by a bank cannot exceed 100% of its capital funds (Tier 1 + Tier 2 Capital) of the latest 
audited balance sheet; and on any given day, the borrowing should not exceed 125% of the same. In 
a Reporting fortnight the average daily lending by a bank cannot exceed 25% of its Tier 1 + Tier 2 
Capital as of the previous financial year; and on any given day the lending should not exceed 50% 
of the same. These conditions should be complied by the borrowing institutions. The compliance of 
these conditions need not be ascertained by the lender in the call money market.
Primary Dealers are permitted a daily average borrowing limit of 225% of their Net Owned Funds 
and lending limit of 25% of their Net Owned Funds as at end March of the previous financial year. 
Cooperative Banks may lend without limit, but borrowing is limited to not more than 2% of their 
Deposits as at the end of March of the previous financial year.
The document by which the call/notice money transactions are evidenced is the call/notice money 
receipt issued by the borrower to the lender. The lender pays funds to the borrower by way of a 
Banker’s Cheque, a cheque drawn on RBI or a RTGS credit. The following day or on a day fixed 
according to the notice, the reversal takes place by repayment with agreed interest by the borrower 
to the lender against the return of call/notice money receipt duly discharged by the lender.
Call deposit earns interest at agreed rate per annum. The repayment of call borrowings is along with 
interest for the days of use of money. The interest on call/notice money is simple interest and paid 
on maturity. On the due date of payment, the borrowing institution repays the lender the amount 
borrowed and the interest thereon for days (day count actual/365) of the call/notice money.
Call deposits are not negotiable or transferable. The money borrowed should be automatically repaid 
as per agreed terms and there is no need for demand for the repayment from the lender.
The Call/Notice Money transactions can be executed either on NDS-Call, a screen–based, negotiated, 
quote-driven electronic trading system managed by the Clearing Corporation of India (CCIL), or 
over the counter (OTC) through bilateral communication.
All dealings in Call/Notice/Term money executed on the Negotiated Dealing System-Call, i.e., 
NDS-Call (a screen–based, negotiated, quote-driven system), do not require separate reporting.
It is mandatory that all the OTC Call/Notice/Term money deals be reported over the reporting 
platform of NDS-Call by the parties who are having NDS-Call membership. OTC deals should be 
reported within 15 minutes on NDS-Call reporting platform, irrespective of the size of the deal or 
whether the counterparty is a member of the NDS-Call or not.
Eligible participants are free to decide on interest rates in call/notice money market. Calculation of 
interest payable is based on the methodology given in the Handbook of Market Practices brought 
out by the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA).
Call market is generally active between the Saturday after the reporting Friday to the next Reporting 
Friday. A Reporting Friday is the day on which the bank calculates its demand and time liabilities 
Treasury Management.indb 59 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
60 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
and complies with CRR and SLR stipulations. Therefore on the reporting Friday, normally there is 
not much activity in the call money market. However, if a bank were to be short on CRR or faces 
liquidity issues, it may borrow on reporting Friday also. In order that the call deposit does not get 
added up to DTL, banks prefer to borrow in the bill market on reporting Fridays. However, at present, 
all interbank liabilities have been exempted from reserve requirements and hence Call market is 
active even on reporting Fridays.
6.1.2 Term Money
Term Money refers to those borrowing/lending transactions between the inter-bank participants which 
have a fixed tenor of 15 days or more. The reasons for the transactions and other aspects could be 
the same as those for the call/notice money transactions. However, there is no regulatory limit on 
the amount an inter-bank participant can lend and borrow. In addition, term money also enables the 
borrower taking position in a short-term asset market.
Rates of interest on term money are negotiated between transacting parties. These rates are arrived 
from the deposit rates prevailing in the market. However there are no authentic rates such as MIBOR 
which could be bench marked. The interest rate is simple and calculated on a day count basis of 
actual/365.
Normally term money is not repayable before maturity. However, premature cancellation after 
14 days can be done by mutual consent on mutually agreed terms. No loan/overdraft can be granted 
against Term Money. Term money cannot be traded. As such, it has limited use in the money market.
6.1.3 Bank Fixed Deposits (FDs)
Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCBs) and Co-operative banks accept term deposits for a period 
of 7 days and above. The rates of interest on such deposits vary from bank to bank. Deposits are 
accepted at bank branches. The depositor gets a Fixed/Term Deposit Receipt (FDR) or an advice 
from the bank which accepts the deposit. These deposits are not transferable. However, the depositor 
has an option to liquidate the deposit, known as premature closure (embedded option), prior to its 
contracted maturity subject to penalty as indicated by a bank which could vary from bank to bank. 
Presently, most banks have waived such penalties on interest payable on premature closure, to 
remain competitive in the market. Banks cannot engage in discretionary pricing of Fixed Deposits, 
as the interest rate quoted for a quantum and maturity should be the same across all its branches 
on any given day for all types of customers of the same class.Banks are however, allowed to offer 
differential rate of interest for single term deposit of `15 lakh and above.
Anybody can invest funds in a fixed deposit. In a strict sense a fixed deposit is not a money market 
instrument since it cannot be traded. However, often banks and FIs make investment in FDs. This is 
appropriate when funds are available for a specified period and rate in FD market is more favourable 
than other markets. FD investments can be foreclosed at a stipulated penalty in terms of loss of interest. 
Therefore, banks look at FDs if they can lock the funds for a specific period. FDs are mentioned here 
as it is a short-term alternate investment option and it does have certain liquidity features – albeit 
limited – in the sense that the investor can redeem the FD at the bank at any point in time.
Treasury Management.indb 60 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 61
6.1.4 Certificates of Deposit (CD)
Certificate of Deposit (CD) is a negotiable money market instrument and issued in dematerialized 
form or as a Usance Promissory Note, for funds deposited at a bank or other eligible financial 
institution for a specified time period. Guidelines for issue of CDs are presently issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India.
Accordingly, CDs can be issued by (i) scheduled commercial banks excluding Regional Rural Banks 
(RRBs) and Local Area Banks (LABs); and (ii) select all-India Financial Institutions that have been 
permitted by RBI to raise short-term resources within the umbrella limit fixed by RBI. Banks have 
the freedom to issue CDs depending on their requirements. An FI may issue CDs within the overall 
umbrella limit fixed by RBI, i.e. issue of CD together with other instruments, viz., term money, term 
deposits, commercial papers and inter-corporate deposits which should not exceed 100 per cent of 
its net owned funds, as per the latest audited balance sheet.
The maturity period of CDs issued by banks should be not less than 7 days and not more than one year. 
The FIs can issue CDs for a period of not less than 1 year and not exceeding 3 years from the date of issue.
CDs may be issued at a discount on face value. Banks/FIs are also allowed to issue CDs on floating 
rate basis, provided the methodology of compiling the floating rate is objective, transparent and 
market-based. The issuing bank/FI is free to determine the discount/coupon rate. The interest rate on 
floating rate CDs would have to be reset periodically in accordance with a pre-determined formula 
that indicates the spread over a transparent benchmark. However the more popular mode of issuing 
CDs has been as a discounted instrument. Banks can indulge in discretionary pricing in CDs.
Other features of CD are as follows:
1. CDs can be issued to individuals, corporations, companies, trusts, funds, associations, etc. 
Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) may also subscribe to CDs, but only on non-repatriable basis 
which should be clearly stated on the Receipt/Certificate. Such CDs cannot be endorsed to 
another NRI in the secondary market.
2. Physical CDs are freely transferable by endorsement and delivery. Demat CDs can be 
transferred as per the procedure applicable to other demat securities. Currently, as per RBI 
guidelines, Banks/FIs should issue CDs only in the demat form. However, according to the 
Depositories Act, 1996, investors have the option to seek certificate in physical form.
3. There is no lock-in period for the CDs (minimum period has to be in excess of 7 days).
4. Minimum amount of a CD should be Rs. 1 lakh, i.e. the minimum deposit that could be accepted 
from a single subscriber should not be less than Rs. 1 lakh and in the multiples of Rs. 1 lakh thereafter.
5. The rate of discount/coupon is determined by parties to the transaction. The market factors, 
demand and supply are taken into consideration while fixing the rates. Yet there are no bench 
mark rates and if a CD is issued at high rates, despite low call money and other rates, there 
would not be any difficulties. Banks/FIs are also allowed to issue CDs on floating rate 
basis provided the methodology of compiling the floating rate is objective, transparent 
and market-based. The issuing bank/FI is free to determine the discount/coupon rate. The 
interest rate on floating rate CDs would have to be reset periodically in accordance with 
a pre-determined formula that indicates the spread over a transparent benchmark. The 
investor should be clearly informed of the same.
Treasury Management.indb 61 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
62 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
 Discount is calculated on Actual/365 day basis and on a rear-ended basis. Price to be 
calculated upto a maximum of four decimal places and rounded off to the 4th decimal place. 
The formula for calculating issue price or yield of a CD valued at Rs. 100 will be as under;
 
Case 1: In case yield is given then:
 Price = 
100
(1 + Yield* No. of days to maturity)
365 * 100
Case 2: In case price is given then
 Yield = (100-Price) * 365*100
(Price * No. of Days to maturity)
 Thus, if the CD’s face value is `10000 and the yield is 10% and the period of CD is 
91 days, the initial investment in the CD will be `9756.7495. The initial investment will give 
a coupon (simple interest) of 10%.
6. The instrument is to be stamped according to the rates prescribed by the Indian Stamp Act.
7. Banks/FIs cannot grant loans against CDs. Furthermore, they cannot ordinarily buy-back their 
own CDs before maturity, except with specific approval from RBI Unlike Bank FDs, CDs 
cannot be closed prematurely, but can be traded in secondary market for generating liquidity.
6.1.5 Commercial Paper (CP)
Commercial Paper (CP) is an unsecured money market instrument issued in the form of a promissory 
note. CP, as a privately placed instrument, was introduced in India in 1990 with a view to enable highly 
rated corporate borrowers to diversify their sources of short-term borrowings and to provide an additional 
instrument to investors. Subsequently, primary dealers and all-India financial institutions were also 
permitted to issue CP to enable them to meet their short-term funding requirements for their operations. 
Guidelines for issue of CP are issued by the Reserve Bank of India, and amended from time to time.
Corporates and primary dealers (PDs), and the all-India financial institutions (FIs) that have been 
permitted to raise short-term resources under the umbrella limit fixed by Reserve Bank of India, 
are eligible to issue CP.
A corporate would be eligible to issue CP provided: (a) the tangible net worth of the company, as 
per the latest audited balance sheet, is not less than `4 crore; (b) company has been sanctioned 
working capital limit by bank/s or all-India financial institution/s; and (c) the borrowal account of 
the company is classified as a Standard Asset by the financing bank/s/institution/s. CP can be issued 
as a “stand alone” product. The aggregate amount of CP from an issuer shall be within the limit as 
approved by its Board of Directors or the quantum indicated by the Credit Rating Agency for the 
specified rating, whichever is lower. Banks and FIs will, however, have the flexibility to fix working 
capital limits duly taking into account the resource pattern of companies’ financing including CPs. 
An FI can issue CP within the overall umbrella limit fixed by the RBI, i.e., issue of CP together 
with other instruments, viz., term money borrowings, term deposits, certificates of deposit and intercorporate deposits should not exceed 100 per cent of its net owned funds, as per the latest audited 
Chapter 1-15.indd 62 6/21/2018 3:46:51 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 63
balance sheet. The total amount of CP proposed to be issued should be raised within a period of two 
weeks from the date on which the issuer opens the issue for subscription. CP may be issued on a 
single date or in tranche/parts on different dates provided that in the latter case, each CP shall have 
the same maturity date. Every issue of CP, including renewal, should be treated as a fresh issue. All 
eligible participants shall obtain the credit rating for issuance of Commercial Paper from any one 
of the SEBI registered Credit Rating Agencies. The minimum credit rating shall be ‘A3’ as per 
rating symbol and definition prescribed by SEBI. The issuers shall ensure at the time of issuance 
of CP that the rating so obtained is current and has not fallen due for review.
CP can be issued for maturities between a minimum of 7 days and a maximum up to one year from 
the date of issue. The maturity date of the CP should not go beyond the date up to which the credit 
rating of the issuer is valid.
The other features of a CP are:
1. CP may be held by individuals, banking companies, other corporate bodies registered or 
incorporated in India and unincorporated bodies, Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) and Foreign 
Institutional Investors (FIIs). However, investment by FIIs is subject to (i) the limits set for 
their investments by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and (ii) compliance 
with the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the Foreign Exchange 
(Deposit) Regulations, 2000 and the Foreign Exchange Management(Transfer or Issue of 
Security by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000 as amended from time 
to time.
2. CP can be issued either in the form of a promissory note (Schedule I) or in a dematerialized 
form through any of the depositories approved by and registered with SEBI. While option 
is available to both issuers and subscribers to issue/ hold CP in dematerialized or physical 
form, issuers and subscribers are encouraged to prefer exclusive reliance on dematerialized 
form of issue/holding. However, with effect from June 30, 2001, banks, FIs and PDs are 
required to make fresh investments and hold CP only in dematerialized form. The secondary 
market deals in CPs are to be reported on F-Trac. However, the delivery of securities 
and transfer of funds will be done by the counterparties themselves to the Exchange 
Clearing Corporations which are mandated for settlement of the transactions.
3. CP will be issued at a discount to face value as may be determined by the issuer.
4. No issuer shall have the issue of CP underwritten or co-accepted. Banks and FIs have, however, the 
flexibility to provide for a CP issue, credit enhancement by way of standby assistance/credit, backstop facility, etc., based on their commercial judgment, subject to prudential norms as applicable 
and with specific approval of their Boards. Non-bank entities including corporates may also provide 
unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for credit enhancement for CP issue provided:
(i) the issuer fulfills the eligibility criteria prescribed for issuance of CP;
(ii) the guarantor has a credit rating at least one notch higher than the issuer from an approved 
credit rating agency; and
(iii) the offer document for CP discloses, adequately, the net worth of the guarantor company, 
the names of the companies to which the guarantor has issued similar guarantees, the 
extent of the guarantees offered by the guarantor company, and the conditions under 
which the guarantee will be invoked.
Treasury Management.indb 63 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
64 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
5. Every issuer must appoint an IPA [Issue and Pay Agent] for issuance of CP. Only a scheduled 
bank can act as an IPA for issuance of CP.
6. CP shall be issued at a discount to face value as may be determined by the issuer.
7. The instrument is to be stamped according to the rates prescribed by the Indian Stamp Act.
6.1.6 Bill Rediscounting Scheme (BRDS)
BRD is the rediscounting of trade bills, which have already been purchased by/discounted 
with the bank by the customers. These trade bills arise out of supply of goods/services. Banks, 
in their normal course of business discount genuine bills of exchange. This forms part of the loans 
and advances or credit portfolio of the bank. To provide liquidity and to promote the bills culture in 
the economy, the RBI formulated a scheme whereby a bank may raise funds by issue of Derivative 
Usance Promissory Notes (DUPN) in convenient lots and maturities on the strength of genuine trade 
bills discounted by it. This scheme is known as the Bills Rediscounting Scheme (BRDS). Banks and 
permitted financial entities may invest by way of rediscounting trade bills of other eligible banks 
against a Derivative Usance Promissory Note issued by such bank. The minimum tenor of a BRDS 
transaction is 15 days and the maximum tenor is 90 days. The bank borrowing under the BRDS 
scheme issues a Derivative Usance Promissory Note to the lender as well as a certificate that the 
bank holds eligible bills, equal to the amount of the transaction on its books. The DUPN should 
be backed by unencumbered Usance Bills of Exchange of at least equal value not fallen due for 
payment drawn or endorsed in favour of the subscriber/lender arising out of bona fide commercial 
or trade transaction on which the required stamp duty is paid. The discounting bank will hold and 
continue to hold such unencumbered usance bills till the date of maturity of the Derivative Usance 
Promissory Note. In case any of the bills mature during the currency of the derivative UPN, such 
bills should be replaced by fresh eligible bills discounted by the bank issuing such derivative UPN.
Derivative Usance Promissory Note (DUPN):
Usance Promissory note drawn by the discounting Bank against the underlying Bills. While 
rediscounting the Bills, actual endorsement and delivery of these Bills are not necessary. Instead 
this Promissory Note is delivered. Since this Note derives its value from the underlying Bills, this 
is called Derivative Usance Promissory Note.
The bank availing of rediscounting facilities against bills earlier discounted by it, is required to 
maintain a register containing true and full particulars of usance bills held by it in respect of each 
promissory note so that the entries in the register can be verified. Banks can only rediscount eligible 
bills which have the following features:
– The bill of exchange should have arisen on account of a bonafide trade transaction. House 
bills and bills of finance companies are not eligible as cover for BRDS.
– The bill of exchange should be unencumbered.
– The unexpired tenor of the bill should not be more than 90 days.
– The advances of a bank borrowing under the BRDS get reduced to the extent of the borrowing 
while it is shown as an advance on the lender’s books.
– The BRDS transaction is carried out on a discounted basis and has the following features.
– Interest is calculated on an actual/365 basis.
Treasury Management.indb 64 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 65
– Interest is calculated on a front-ended basis and rounded off to the nearest Rupee.
– The borrower receives an amount which is the Principal Amount less the interest/discount.
– The lender receives the Principal Amount, from the borrower, on the maturity of the transaction.
– The effective yield on the bills discounting is higher than the discount rate.
Consider the following examples:
Example 1:
Amount of Bill `100
Interest rate per annum 12
Bill Rediscounting period 3 months
Interest amount for three months is `3
Net amount lent is `97
The yield = (3*4/97)*100 = 12.37%
It is seen that the yield is higher due to the discounting effect.
Example 2:
Transaction Amount: `10,00,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Crore) (Principal Amount)
No. of Days: 45 days
Rate of Discount: 10.25% p.a. front ended
Discount: Transaction Amount * No. of days * Rate of interest/discount
              365 * 100
   i.e., 10,00,00,000 *45 * 10.25
       365 * 100
   i.e., `12,63,699 (rounded off)
Amount payable: Transaction Amount – Discount/Interest
i.e., 10,00,00,000 – 12,63,699 = `9,87,36,301/-
Amount to be Repaid on maturity: `10,00,00,000/-
6.1.7 Inter-Bank Participation Certificates (IBPCs)
IBPC is yet another short-term money market instrument whereby the banks can raise money/deploy 
short-term surplus. In the case of IBPC the borrowing bank (Issuing Bank) passes/sells the loans 
and credit that it has in its book, for a temporary period, to the lending bank (Participating Bank). 
IBPCs are of two types. They are: (i) With risk sharing (ii) Without risk sharing.
Scheduled Commercial Banks can issue and purchase/participate in IBPCs. The scheme was also 
extended to the Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) in 2009 whereby they were allowed to issue IBPCs 
Treasury Management.indb 65 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
66 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
to scheduled commercial banks in respect of their priority sector advances in excess of the minimum 
stipulated requirement. With the upward revision in priority sector lending requirements for RRBs 
under the revised priority sector guidelines issued by RBI in 2015, the RRBs can now issue IBPCs 
for their priority sector advances in excess of 75% of their outstanding advances. The RRBs have 
not been allowed to purchase IBPCs. Further, the RRBs are allowed to issue IBPCs only on ‘risk 
sharing’ basis.
The various features of this instrument are given below:
1. The minimum period shall be 91 days and maximum period 180 days in the case of IBPCs 
on risk sharing basis and in the case of IBPCs under non-risk sharing basis the total period is 
limited to 90 days.
2. The maximum participation in loan/cash credit under IBPC would be 40% of the amount 
outstanding or the limit sanctioned whichever is lower. The participation however, should be 
in “standard asset” only.
3. Documents to be executed by the borrower in favour of the Issuing Bank shall provide a 
clause that the issuing bank shall have liberty to shift at its discretion without notice to the 
borrower, from time to time during the subsistence of the cash credit/loan account, a part 
or portion of the outstanding in the said account, to another bank/bank’s participating in the 
scheme.
4. Interest rates are determined between issuing bank and the participating bank.
5. The issuing bank and the participating bank have to enter into participation contracts in the 
format prescribed.
6. IBPCs are not transferable.
7. IBPCs cannot be redeemed before due date.
8. In case the balance in the cash credit/loan account on which IBPCs have been issued comes 
down, at any point of time, the issuing bank has to repay the portion of the IBPCs issued to 
the participating bank so that the participation is not more than 40% of the balance outstanding 
in the said account/s.
9. On the date of maturity the issuing Bank makes payment of the IBPC along with agreed rate 
of interest to the participating bank except in the case where risk has materialized, where the 
issuing bank may take necessary action in consultation with the participating bank and may 
share the recoveries proportionately. In the case of non-risk sharing IBPCs, the issuing bank 
will pay the amount of the participating bank irrespective of defaults, if any, in advance in 
question.
10. IBPC under non-risk sharing basis should be reflected as an inter – bank borrowing and 
subjected to SLR requirements.
11. IBPCs representing loans to various categories of priority sector, except ‘others’ category, 
are eligible for classification under respective categories of priority sector depending on 
the underlying assets. This has immensely benefitted the foreign banks and domestic 
private banks which usually face shortfall in achieving priority sector lending targets 
and consequently are required to keep the shortfall as deposit with financial institutions, 
like NABARD, at a very low rate of interest – The highest the shortfall in achieving 
priority sector lending targets, the lowest the rate of interest on such deposits.
Treasury Management.indb 66 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 67
6.1.8 Collateralized Borrowing and Lending Obligation (CBLO)
CBLO is a money market instrument approved by RBI. This is a product developed by CCIL for the 
benefit of the entities who have either been phased out from inter-bank call money market or have 
been given restricted participation in terms of ceiling on call borrowing and lending transactions 
and who do not have access to the call money market. CBLO is a discounted instrument available in 
electronic book entry form for the maturity period ranging from one day to ninety days (can be made 
available up to one year as per RBI guidelines). In order to enable the market participants to borrow 
and lend funds, CCIL provides the Dealing System through Indian Financial Network (INFINET), 
a closed user group to the Members of RBI CBS E-Kuber, who maintain Current account with RBI, 
and through Internet for other entities who do not maintain Current account with RBI.
CBLO is a borrowing arrangement, against those securities which are placed with the Clearing 
Corporation of India either as margin or otherwise. The process can be explained as under: 
CBLO is
– An obligation by the borrower to return the money borrowed, at a specified future date;
– An authority to the lender to receive money lent, at a specified future date with an option/
privilege to transfer the authority to another person for value received;
– An underlying charge on securities held in custody (with CCIL) for the amount borrowed/
lent.
– For a lender of funds under CBLO, the securities can be reckoned as eligible securities for 
meeting SLR reserves.
Eligibility: Membership (including Associate Membership) of CBLO segment is extended to banks, 
financial institutions, insurance companies, mutual funds, primary dealers, NBFCs, non-government 
Provident/Pension Funds, Corporates, etc. The Members are required to open Constituent SGL 
(CSGL) Account with CCIL for depositing securities which are offered as collateral/margin for 
borrowing and lending of funds. Besides, Associate Members are required to open a current account 
with a Settlement Bank designated by CCIL for settlement of funds. An Associate Member can 
maintain its GILT Account with any custodian bank.
Eligible Securities: Eligible securities are Central Government securities including Treasury Bills.
6.1.9 Treasury Bills (T-bills)
Treasury bill is a short-term instrument issued by the Government of India (GOI) and are presently 
issued in three tenors, namely, 91 days, 182 days and 364 days. The T-Bill issuance calendar is 
announced by RBI for each half-year. The T-Bill is a discounted instrument, i.e., it is issued at a 
discount to its face value which is usually `100. The investment in the Treasury bills is reckoned 
for the purpose of Statutory Liquidity Reserve (SLR) requirements.
The T-Bills are issued in the primary market by the Reserve Bank of India periodically. Normally 
there are T-Bill auctions every week. The market participants have to bid for a discounted price in 
the auction. The cut-off price for the auction is determined by the RBI at a level where the notified 
amount of the auction is fully bid for. Thus, the cut-off is, under normal circumstances, determined 
by the market forces.
Treasury Management.indb 67 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
68 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
T-Bills have a moderately active secondary market. The secondary market trades in T-Bills on a 
YTM basis. The price of the T-Bill is then computed from the yield at which it has been dealt. The 
transfer of T-Bill is through the SGL mechanism.
In recent times the notified amount in T-Bill auction is also included as part for the Market Stabilization 
Scheme (MSS). The MSS was introduced in order to enable the RBI to mop up excess liquidity 
from the system.
Cash Management Bills
In 2010, the Government of India, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, introduced a new 
short-term instrument, known as Cash Management Bills, to meet the temporary cash flow mismatches 
of the Government. The Cash Management Bills are non-standard, discounted instruments issued 
for maturities less than 91 days.
The Cash Management Bills have the generic character of Treasury Bills and their sale is subject 
to the terms and conditions specified in the General Notification No. F.2 (12)-W&M/97 dated 31st 
March 1998 issued by Government of India and as amended from time to time.
The Cash Management Bills have the following features.
(a) The tenure, notified amount and date of issue of the proposed Cash Management Bills depends 
upon the temporary cash requirement of the Government. However, the tenure of the proposed 
Bills is less than 91 days.
(b) The Cash Management Bills are issued at discount to the face value through auctions, as in 
the case of the Treasury Bills.
(c) The announcement of the auction of the Cash Management Bills is made by the Reserve Bank 
of India through separate Press Release to be issued one day prior to the date of auction.
(d) The settlement of the auction is conducted on T+1 basis.
(e) The Non-Competitive Bidding Scheme for Treasury Bills is not to be extended to the Cash 
Management Bills.
(f) The Cash Management Bills are tradable and qualify for ready forward facility. Investment 
in the Bills is reckoned as an eligible investment in Government Securities by banks for SLR 
purpose under Section 24 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Example of an Auction Notice issued by RBI is given below:
RBI announces auction of a 43-Day Government of India Cash Management Bill
The Reserve Bank of India announces auction of a 43-Day Government of India Cash 
Management Bill as per the following details.
Auction Date Settlement Date Maturity date Notified Amount
August 07, 2017 August 08, 2017 September 20, 2017 ₹20,000 crore
The auction will be conducted using “Multiple Price Auction” method. The competitive 
bids for the auction should be submitted in electronic format on the Reserve Bank of India 
Core Banking Solution (E-Kuber) between 10.30 a.m. and 12.00 noon. The result of the 
auction will be announced on the same day.
Treasury Management.indb 68 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 69
6.1.10 Repurchase Agreements (Repos)
Repo is a money market mechanism, which enables collateralized short term borrowing and lending 
through sale/purchase operations in debt instruments. Unlike call deposits and T. Bills, repo is not an 
instrument in the market. It is a process wherein a number of instruments such as G-Secs, PSU Bonds 
and other securities can be used as underlying securities to borrow and lend in the money market. 
Under a repo transaction, a holder of securities sells them to lender of funds with an agreement to 
repurchase the same securities for a same amount at a predetermined date. It is essentially a lending 
and borrowing transaction at an agreed rate of interest known as repo rate. In view of this, the forward 
clean price of the bonds is set, at the time of sale, at a level which is different from the spot clean 
price by adjusting the difference between repo interest (known as repo rate) and coupon income on 
the security. The rate of interest on repo will be market related.
In the money market, a REPO transaction is nothing but collateralized lending, as the terms of the 
transaction are structured to compensate for the funds lent and the cost of the transaction is the repo 
rate. In other words, the inflow of cash from the transaction can be used by the borrower of funds to 
meet temporary liquidity requirement in the short term money market at comparable cost.
6.1.10.1 Repo Rate
It is the annualized interest rate for the funds lent by the buyer of the securities (lender) to the seller 
of the securities (borrower). Generally, the repo rate is lower than that offered on unsecured (or 
clean) interbank loan for the reason that it is a collateralized transaction and the creditworthiness of 
the issuer of the underlying security is often higher than the seller. Other factors that may affect the 
repo rate include the creditworthiness of the borrower, liquidity of the collateral and comparable 
rates of other money market instruments.
Repo is an instrument for borrowing funds by selling securities with an agreement to repurchase 
the said securities on a mutually agreed future date at an agreed price which includes interest for 
the funds borrowed. A reverse repo is the mirror image of a repo. REPO viewed from the angle 
of the lender is known as reverse repo. Thus, in a reverse repo, securities are acquired with a 
simultaneous commitment to resell. Hence, whether a transaction is a repo or a reverse repo is 
determined in terms of who initiated the first leg of the transaction. When the reverse repurchase 
transaction matures, the counter party returns the security to the entity concerned and receives its 
cash along with interest at the contracted repo rate. One factor which encourages an organization 
to enter into reverse repo is that it earns some income on its otherwise idle cash, from a secured 
form of lending.
A repo is also called a ready forward transaction as it is a means of funding by selling a security 
held on a spot (ready) basis and repurchasing the same on a forward basis.
When an entity sells a security to another entity on repurchase agreement basis and simultaneously 
purchases some other security from the same entity on resell basis, it is called a double ready 
forward transaction.
REPO is also undertaken by RBI for controlling liquidity in the market as also to help banks in 
need of liquidity. The banks can borrow funds from RBI by approaching RBIs REPO window. This 
Treasury Management.indb 69 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
70 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
is a reverse repo for borrowing bank. Similarly, Banks with surplus liquidity can park their surplus 
overnight with RBI in RBIs Reverse Repo window, against government securities offered by RBI. 
This two way funding mechanism by RBI is known as LAF (Liquidity Adjustment Facility). RBI 
varies the REPO rate frequently. In fact LAF is a monetary tool in the hands of RBI.
Participants in the LAF market are those which are indicated by RBI. As against this, repo in the 
market can be between banks and financial institutions. Non-Banking participants can lend money to 
other eligible counterparties through repo. Repo is also allowed in PSU bonds and private corporate 
debts provided the debts are held in dematerialized form.
The lender of funds is not permitted to sell outright the securities held under repo, during the repo 
period as the Repo inherently involves repurchase of securities pledged by the borrower from the 
lender after the repo period.
The repo market is regulated by the Reserve Bank of India. All the above mentioned repo market 
transactions should be traded/reported on the electronic platform called the Clearcorp Repo Order 
Matching System (CROMS).
As part of the measures to develop the corporate debt market, RBI has permitted select entities 
(scheduled commercial banks excluding RRBs and LABs, PDs, all-India FIs, NBFCs, mutual 
funds, housing finance companies, insurance companies) to undertake repo in corporate debt 
securities. This is similar to repo in G-Secs except that corporate debt securities are used as 
collateral for borrowing funds. Only listed corporate debt securities that are rated ‘AA’ or 
above by the rating agencies are eligible to be used for repo. Commercial paper, certificate of 
deposit, non-convertible debentures of original maturity less than one year are not eligible for 
this purpose. These transactions take place in the OTC market and are required to be reported 
on FIMMDA platform within 15 minutes of the trade for dissemination of trade information. 
They are also to be reported on the clearing house of any of the exchanges for the purpose of 
clearing and settlement.
6.1.10.2 Repo Pricing
In a repo transaction there is a spot sale and a forward purchase by the borrower of funds. These 
transactions are complete when SGLs are exchanged or transfer in demat form is complete and 
the ownership of the securities is transferred to the buyer for the period of repo and sold back to 
the seller at the end of the agreed period. Often the reversal of the transaction is automatic and 
will be done by the clearing corporation or the securities holding company. As indicated, in a repo 
there are two legs of transactions, viz., selling of the security and repurchasing of the same. In the 
first leg of the transaction for a nearer date, sale price is usually based on the prevailing market 
price for outright deals. In the second leg, which is for a future date, the price will be structured 
based on the fund flow of interest and tax elements of funds exchanged. This is because, as the 
ownership of securities passes on from seller to buyer for the repo period, legally the coupon 
interest accrued for the period has to be passed on to the buyer. Thus, at the sale leg, while the 
buyer of security is required to pay the accrued coupon interest for the broken period, at the 
repurchase leg, the initial seller is required to pay the accrued interest for the broken period to 
the initial buyer.
Treasury Management.indb 70 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 71
Transaction-wise, both the legs are booked as spot sale/purchase transactions. Thus, after adjusting 
for accrued coupon interest, sale and repurchase prices are fixed so as to yield the required repo 
rate. Essentially, the price adjustment depends on the relationship between the net coupon and the 
repo amount worked out on the basis of the repo interest agreed upon the total funds transferred. 
When repo rate is higher than current yield, repurchase price will be adjusted upward signifying a 
capital loss. If the repo rate is lower than the current yield, then the repurchase price will be adjusted 
downward signifying a capital gain.
If the repo rate and coupon are equal, then the repurchase price will be equal to the sale price of 
security since no price adjustment at the repurchase stage will be required. In such cases, the out go 
(dirty price) in the first leg will be clean price + accrued interest. In the reversal leg also, the out go 
will be calculated as price plus accrued interest. Accrued interest will be higher as the repo period 
will be added to the original broken period.
If the repo rate is greater than the coupon, then the repurchase price is adjusted upward (with 
reference to sale price) to the extent of the difference between the two. And, if the repo rate is 
lower than the coupon, then the repurchase price is adjusted downward (with reference to sale 
price). Specifically, in terms of repo rate, there will be no price adjustment when the current 
yield on security calculated on the basis of sale value (including accrued coupon) is equivalent 
to repo rate.
In case the coupon payment day falls within the repo period, suitable adjustments in the price should 
be made.
It should be particularly remembered that whereas the price at the time of first leg is taken from 
the market, the second leg price is prefixed by working back the repurchase price to equate the 
consideration amount to principal exchanged in first leg plus accrued interest at repo rate and may 
not be market related.
As indicated previously, a repo transaction is also called a Ready Forward transaction, i.e. a transaction 
having a “Ready” leg and a “Forward” leg.
The ready forward transaction is in two legs:
Ready Leg: The borrower of funds sells securities at the prevailing market price to the lender.
Before the sale the borrower and lender agree on the tenor and rate of the Repo Transaction.
Forward Leg: The borrower of funds buys back the securities sold in the Ready leg from the lender 
at a computed price so that the lender (seller of securities in second leg) gets an amount which 
includes the amount lent on the Ready leg plus the interest for the amount lent at the agreed interest 
rate for the tenor of the Repo.
The repo transaction, therefore, should have:
1. Present sale or purchase with a commitment to repurchase or resale, respectively at a future 
date;
2. Contract between the same parties;
3. Same securities with the same quantum and;
4. Transactions must be entered on the same day for both legs.
Treasury Management.indb 71 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
72 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The following example will clarify the Repo transaction.
Computation Bank A agrees to borrow approximately `10 crore from Bank B for a period of 3 days 
at an interest rate of 5%.
Borrower: Bank A
Lender: Bank B
Tenor: 3 days
Repo Rate: 5.00%
Security: 6.85% GOI 2012
(Government of India security with a coupon rate of
6.85% and maturing on 05 April 2012)
Ready Leg Date: 15 November 2005
Forward Leg Date: 18 November 2005
Ready Leg Computation
Ready Leg Price of Security: `100/-
Face Value of Security: `10,00,00,000/-
Principal Value of Security: `10,00,00,000/- ….A
Last Interest Date: 05 October 2005
Accrued Interest on Security: `7,61,111.11 …..B
Ready Leg Proceeds (A+B): `10,07,61,111.11 …..C
Forward Leg Computation
Repo Interest Amount: (`10,07,61,111.11) × .05 × 3/365
`41,408.68 …..D
Forward Leg Proceeds (C+D): `10,08,02,519.79 …..E
Accrued Interest on Security: `8,18,194.44 …..F
Principal Value of Security (E-F): `9,99,84,325.35 …..G
Forward Leg Price of Security: [G/(100000000)] × 100
`99.9843
The above example illustrates how the forward leg price is derived for a Repo transaction.
Eligible Instruments: Different instruments can be considered as collateral security for undertaking 
the ready forward deals and they include Government dated securities, Treasury Bills and corporate 
bonds.
However, under the Uniform Rules for Repo Accounting, the securities must move out and come back 
to the books of the bank, without any change in its Book Value. The price difference is routed through 
a Repo Price Adjustment Account and partly reflected as interest on Repo borrowings/lendings.
Treasury Management.indb 72 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 73
6.1.11 Types of Repos
Broadly, there are four types of repos available in the international market when classified with 
regard to maturity of underlying securities, pricing, term of repo, etc. They comprise buy-sell back 
repo, classic repo, bond borrowing and lending and tripartite repos.
Under a buy-sell repo (this is nothing but normal repo as described above) transaction, the 
lender actually takes possession of the collateral. Here a security is sold outright and agreement 
to buy back is exchanged simultaneously but the buyback settlement takes place on a later 
date. In a buy-sell repo, the ownership is passed on to the buyer and hence he retains any 
coupon interest due on the bonds. The forward price of the bond is set in advance at a level 
which is different from the spot clean price by actually adjusting the difference between repo 
interest and coupon earned on the security. The spot buyer/borrower of securities in effect 
earns the yield on the underlying security plus or minus the difference between this and the 
repo interest rate.
Classic repo is an initial sale of securities with a simultaneous agreement to repurchase them at a 
later date. In the case of this type of repo, the start and end prices of the securities are the same and 
a separate payment of “interest” is made. Classic repo makes it explicit that the securities are only 
collateral for cash loan. Here the coupon income will accrue to the seller of the security. Under a 
‘hold in custody’ repo, the counter parties enter into an agreement whereby the securities sold are 
held in custody by the seller for the buyer until maturity of the repo, thus eliminating the settlement 
requirements.
In a bond lending/borrowing transaction, the customer lends bonds for an open ended or fixed period 
in return for a fee. The fee charged would depend on the type of underlying instrument, size and 
term of the loan and the credit rating of the counter party. The transaction would be taken care of by 
an agreement on securities lending and cash, or other securities of equal value could be provided 
as collateral in the transaction.
Under a Tripartite repo, a common custodian/clearing agency arranges for custody, clearing and 
settlement of repo transactions. They operate under a standard global master purchase agreement 
and provide for DVP system, substitution of securities, automatic marking to market, reporting and 
daily administration by single agency, which takes care of the risk by itself and automatic roll overs 
while does not insist on disclosing the identities by counter parties. The system starts with signing 
of agreements by all parties and the agreements include Global Master Repurchase and Tripartite 
Repo Service Agreements. This type of arrangement minimises credit risk and can be utilised when 
dealing with clients with low credit rating.
6.1.11.1 Repo Period
Repo transaction can be undertaken for overnight to a longer term period. Overnight repo lasts only 
one day. If more than one day period is fixed and agreed in advance, it is a term repo. Though these 
are terminated as per agreement, it is possible for either party to terminate the repo at any time by 
giving one or two days’ notice. Such terminations are seldom seen in the market. Though there is 
no restriction on the maximum period for which repos can be undertaken, generally ‘term repos’ are 
Treasury Management.indb 73 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
74 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
for an average period of one week. In an open repo, there is no such fixed maturity period and the 
interest rate would change from day to day depending on the money market conditions. In such cases 
the lender agrees to provide money for an indefinite period and the agreement can be terminated on 
any day. Under flexible repos, the lender places funds, but they are withdrawn by the borrower as 
per his requirements over an agreed period.
6.1.11.2 Risks
Although repos are collateralized transactions, the parties to repo are exposed to counter party risk and 
the issuer risk associated with the collateral. The counter party risk may not be high as the investor/
lender should be able to liquidate the securities received as collateral, thus largely offsetting any loss. 
Against this, the seller/lender of bonds will hold cash or other securities as protection against nonreturning of the lent securities. In both the cases, it is to be ensured that the realizable value equals 
or exceeds the exposure. There is also the possibility of risk resulting from illiquid issues which are 
used as collateral in the transaction. Though risk of default is minimum, to avoid the likelihood of 
illiquid securities it has to be ensured that REPO is undertaken in active market securities and not 
in securities which are not traded.
In a repo transaction, the lender could be exposed to interest rate risk. This is because, interest 
rates might rise, forcing down the market value of the securities that have been used in the repo. 
If such an event coincides with the borrower becoming bankrupt and the repurchase was not 
executed, the lender might be left holding securities with a market value less than the amount lent. 
The borrower (seller of security) in a repo transaction also faces some risk. Interest rates might fall 
during the life of the agreement, forcing up the market value of the securities sold under REPO. 
In such a situation there is a loss of opportunity. Also, in such cases the borrower would be left 
holding an amount of money lesser than the market value of the securities sold, if the lender were 
to default and not honour the resell contract, then the borrower would have to buy the securities 
from the market at a higher price.
Repos are basically short-term instruments, which can be used effectively for bridging short-term 
asset-liability gaps of the bank or meeting short-term SLR requirements. A bank which is short on 
liquidity and holding surplus SLR securities, can sell securities under repo and create liquidity for 
the short term, with an understanding to repurchase the same lot of securities at an agreed future 
date. Conversely, a bank which wishes to park its short-term surplus liquidity can purchase the 
permissible securities under repo with an understanding to sell it back to the counter party at an 
agreed future date.
The Reserve Bank has permitted banks and specified institutions, primarily the primary dealers, to 
undertake repos. Though financial institutions can participate in the market through reverse repos, 
they cannot initiate repos. It is now possible, for approved institutions to do repos in Corporate Debt 
Securities, in addition to the SLR securities.
The eligible underlying collateral for repo in Corporate Debt Securities include:
(a) Listed corporate debt securities of original maturity of more than one year which are rated 
‘AA’ or above by the rating agencies registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI), that are held in the security account of the repo seller, in demat form.
Treasury Management.indb 74 6/19/2018 6:24:00 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 75
(b) Commercial Papers (CPs), Certificates of Deposit (CDs) and Non-Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs) of original maturity up to one year which are rated A2 or above by the rating agencies 
registered with SEBI.
(c) Bonds which are rated ‘AA’ or above, by the rating agencies registered with SEBI or 
internationally recognised rating agencies, and which are issued by multilateral financial 
institutions like the World Bank Group (e.g., IBRD, IFC), the Asian Development Bank or the 
African Development Bank and other such entities as may be notified by the Reserve Bank 
of India from time to time.
The tenor of Repos in corporate debt securities shall be for a minimum period of one day and a 
maximum period of one year.
The Repo transactions in Corporate Debt Securities are governed by the provisions of Repo in 
Corporate Debt Securities (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2015 issued by Reserve Bank on 3rd February, 
2015 and as amended from time to time.
Thus, the essential requirements for the repos are, as follows:
1. Parties to the repo transaction should be eligible to undertake REPO as per regulatory 
guidelines.
2. Securities for the repos should also be permitted ones.
3. Double ready forward transactions are prohibited.
4. The redemption date of the subject security/s, lock-in period for the periodical interest payment, 
actual interest payment date should not fall during the repo duration.
5. The parties to the repo transaction have sufficient balance in the current account maintained 
with RBI and also the SGL account in Government securities, in case the repoed security 
happens to be the Government security/s. The rates to the repo transaction to be concluded 
depend upon the expected rates movement in call/notice money market in the relevant period 
for which repo is being done, as well as the demand and supply portion of the short term SLR 
securities in the market.
6.1.11.3 Documentation
Legal title to the collateral security which is used in repo transaction passes to the buyer during 
the repo period. As a result, in case the seller defaults in repayment of funds, the buyer need not 
separately establish right on the collateral security.
Many legal regimes across the world do not require repo agreements to be documented. In fact, 
the legal infrastructure varies with the social, economic and political conditions of the markets 
in which they operate. Both legs of the repo are transacted under the written formal agreement in 
the West and European countries. While in the USA it is the PSA Agreement which is in vogue, 
in Europe the PSA/ISMA General Master Repo Agreement is increasingly used in the case of 
domestic repos. The PSA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement with the relevant buy/sell 
back annex contains a full set of contractual rights and obligations including rights of re-pricing 
and clearly defined events of default. The contract allows obligations under all outstanding trades 
to be set off against each other upon the default or insolvency of the counter party. On the other 
Treasury Management.indb 75 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
76 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
hand, when a repo is undertaken as a securities lending transaction, similar protections could be 
had under the Overseas Securities Lending Agreement (OSLA) developed by the International 
Stock Lenders Association.
The master agreements set out the relationships between parties and general positions applicable to 
all repos in terms of definition, delivery and payment obligations of the parties, margin mechanics, 
rights of substitution, treatment of income on securities involved, notice provisions, etc. The matters 
to be covered in the agreement, in detail should include provisions for the absolute transfer of title 
to securities, marking to market of transactions, appropriate initial margin and the maintenance 
of margin whenever the marking to market reveals a material change of value. Also, there is need 
to specify clearly the events of default and the consequential rights and obligation of the counter 
parties. Further, the agreements will elaborate on details on full set off of claims in the event of 
default between the counter parties and clarification of rights of the parties regarding substitution 
of collateral and the treatment of coupon and interest payments in respect of securities subject to it, 
including for example, the timing of any payment.
6.1.11.4 Uses
There are a number of advantages that repos can provide to the financial market in general, and debt 
market, in particular as under:
– An active repo market would lead to an increase in turnover in the money market, thereby 
improving liquidity and depth of the market.
– Repos would increase the volumes in the debt market as it is a tool for funding transactions. 
It enables dealers to deal in higher volumes. Thus, repos provide an inexpensive and most 
efficient way of improving liquidity in the secondary markets for underlying instruments. 
Debt market also gets a boost as repos help traders to take a position and go short or long 
on security. For instance, in a bullish scenario one can acquire securities and in a bearish 
environment, dispose them of, thus managing cash flows taking advantage of flexibility of 
repos.
– For institutions and corporate entities, repos provide a source of inexpensive finance and 
offers investment opportunities of borrowed money at market rates, thus earning a good 
spread.
– Tripartite repos will offer opportunities for suitable financial institutions to intermediate 
between the lender and the borrower.
– A large number of repo transactions for varying tenors will effectively result in a term interest 
rate structure, especially in the interbank market. It is well-known that absence of term ‘money 
market’ is one of the major hindrances to the growth of debt markets and the development of 
hedging instruments.
– Central banks can use repo as an integral part of their open market operations with the objective 
of injecting/withdrawing liquidity into and from the market and also to reduce volatility in 
short term in particular in call money rates. Bank reserves and call rates are used in such 
instances as the operating instruments with a view to ultimately ease/tighten the monetary 
conditions.
Treasury Management.indb 76 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 77
– Entities which engage in short selling of government securities and do not cover their positions 
overnight, but prefer to keep the position open for longer periods, have to access the repo 
market to make available the security during the carry forward period of such short positions.
Let Us Sum Up
Call money or call deposits are those which are lent to be repaid on call. The rate of interest will be 
driven by demand and supply of funds in the market. Term money refers to borrowing/lending with 
tenors greater than 14 days. Certificate of deposits should not be less than 7 days, and not more than 
1 year. The amount of interest on CD is payable on a simple interest basis, but the same is discounted 
upfront. Commercial paper is unsecured money market instrument issued in the form of promissory 
note by Corporates. The minimum tenor of a BRDS transaction is 15 days and the maximum tenor is 
90 days. IBPC is another short term money market instrument whereby the banks can raise/deploy 
their short term surplus. CBLO is a discounted instrument available in electronic book entry form for 
the maturity period ranging from 1 day to 90 days, backed by government securities. Treasury bill is 
a short-term instrument issued by the Government of India. Repo instrument allows banks to borrow 
from RBI at repo rate. Repo transactions can be undertaken from overnight to a longer term period.
Keywords
Call money, notice money, term money, certificate of deposits, commercial paper, CRISIL, ICRA, 
FITCH, Inter Bank Participation Certificates, CBLO, Liquidity Adjustment Facility, Repo/Reverse 
Repo, Ready leg/forward leg and tripartite repo
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. The placement of money/lending in the call/notice money market is ……………
(a) Unsecured
(b) Secured
(c) Regulated by CCIL
(d) Regulated by SBI
2. An FI may issue CDs along with other instruments not exceeding …………… of its net owned 
funds.
(a) 25 percent
(b) 100 percent
(c) 50 percent
(d) 200 percent
3. The minimum and maximum period for Inter Bank Participation Certificates under risk sharing 
basis is …………… / ……………
(a) 1 day/7 days
(b) 7 days/ 90 days
Treasury Management.indb 77 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
78 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(c) 91 days/180 days
(d) 90 days only
4. CCIL provides the dealing system through …………… a closed user group to the members 
of the negotiated dealing system (NDS).
(a) WAN
(b) STP
(c) SGL
(d) INFINET
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 78 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
 INTEREST RATE
QUOTATIONS AND
MARKET TERMINOLOGY
STRUCTURE
7.0 Objective
7.1 Introduction
7.2 Fixed and Floating Rate of Interest
7.3 Simple and Compound Rate of Interest
7.4 Yield
7.5 Premium & Discount
7.6 Front-End and Rear-End Yield
7.7 Day Count Conventions
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
7
Treasury Management.indb 79 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
80 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
7.0 OBJECTIVE
The chapter provides inputs on:
• Fixed and floating rate of interest
• Simple and compound rate of interest
• Concepts of nominal yield, current yield, YTM
• Premium and discount
• Font end, rear end yield
• Day count conventions
7.1 INTRODUCTION
Interest Rates on instruments can be set in different ways. In addition, there are various ways in 
which interest rates can be quoted for transactions. Also there are different ways for calculating the 
interest amount on a money market/debt instrument. In the following sections, some of the different 
types of interest rate quotations are explained.
7.2 FIXED AND FLOATING RATE OF INTEREST
Usually when we discuss a money market or debt instrument, we think of an instrument carrying a 
fixed rate of interest. Hence debt instruments are also referred to as fixed income instruments. In an 
instrument carrying a fixed rate, the interest rate or the coupon rate is fixed at the time of issue for the 
entire tenure of the instrument. Normally an instrument is issued for par value and coupon is fixed, 
the periodical income (par value * coupon * amount invested) is same for the tenor of the investment. 
So the return for an investor holding a fixed rate instrument till maturity is fixed. However, during 
the tenor of the instrument, the value (or market price) of the instrument will vary depending on the 
then prevailing interest rate in the market. If the market interest rate is higher than the coupon, the 
investors will pay less than par value for buying the security such that they get market return on the 
security. On the other hand, if the market interest rate is lower than the coupon, the security will 
attract a premium above the par value. Thus, if the market interest rate goes up, the value/price of 
a fixed rate instrument will decrease and if the market interest rate goes down, the value/price of a 
fixed rate instrument will increase.
On the other hand, in the case of an instrument carrying a floating rate of interest, the interest 
earned on the instrument may change from time to time during the tenor of the instrument. Usually 
in the case of a floating rate instrument, the interest rate is linked to a reference or a benchmark rate 
which is published at pre-determined periodic intervals, e.g., daily, semi-annually, annually, etc. The 
dates at which the reference rate is determined are known as the coupon reset dates. The reference/
benchmark rate is usually a market determined one, e.g., FBIL Overnight MIBOR (the overnight 
call rate), the 364-day Treasury bill cut-off rate, etc. Obviously, the return to the investor over the 
tenor of the instrument will be variable. In view of this, the price volatility in the case of a floating 
rate instrument will be much less than that in the case of a fixed rate instrument of the same tenor. 
This is because of the fact that in the case of the floating rate instrument, the coupon rate will get 
aligned to the market interest rate at every reset date.
Treasury Management.indb 80 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
INTEREST RATE QUOTATIONS AND MARKET TERMINOLOGY 81
7.3 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND RATE OF INTEREST
The simple rate of interest as the name suggests is simple to understand as well as to calculate. 
The formula for a simple interest is as follows: Interest Amount = Principal × Interest Rate × Time. 
For example, a deposit of `100 at a simple interest rate of 7% p.a. will earn `7 over a period of 
1 year.
On the other hand, in the case of a compounded rate of interest, interest is paid on the principal value 
as well as the interest earned during the previous interest periods depending on the compounding 
frequency.
For example, A fixed deposit of `100 at a rate of 7% for a period of 1 year with the interest 
compounded quarterly. The interest computation in this case will be as follows:
First quarter interest: 100 × 7% × (3/12) = `1.75
Second quarter interest: [100 × 7% × (3/12)] + [1.75 × 7% × (3/12)] or 101.75 × 7% × (3/12)
= `1.78
Third quarter interest: [100 × 7% × (3/12)] + [(1.75 + 1.78) × 7% × 3/12] or
103.53 × 7% × (3/12) = `1.81
Fourth quarter interest: [100 × 7% × (3/12)] + [(1.75 + 1.78 + 1.81) × 7% × 3/12] or
105.34 × 7% × (3/12) = `1.84
Total Interest = 1.75 + 1.78 + 1.81 + 1.84 = `7.18 as against `7 in case of simple interest.
Thus the effective rate of interest is 7.18% in this case.
The effective rate of interest on an instrument which carries a compounded rate of interest can be 
computed as follows:
Effective Rate of Interest = [1 + i/f] ^ f – 1 i = nominal rate of interest on the instrument f = 
compounding frequency.
Thus a compounded rate of interest gives a higher yield than the simple rate of interest at the same 
rate. The compounding frequency in case of instruments usually is quarterly or semi-annual, though 
there are instruments where the interest is compounded daily.
7.4 YIELD
Yield is a measure of the overall return to the investor on his/her investment. Yield on an investment 
can be computed in different ways, some of which are given below:
(i) Nominal Yield: This is the annual interest rate specified on the security, irrespective of its actual 
price or the rate at which the security has been purchased. This is also known as ‘coupon’.
(ii) Current Yield: This is the effective yield an investor earns keeping in mind the current market 
price of the security. This is calculated as follows:
Current Yield = [(Coupon)/(Current Market Price)] × 100
Treasury Management.indb 81 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
82 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(iii) Yield To Maturity [YTM]: This is the anticipated yield on the security if it is held till 
redemption, assuming discounting of all future cash flows. This can be interpreted as the average 
compounded rate of return on the security if the same is bought at the current market price and 
held until it matures and the face value is repaid. YTM is the uniform discount rate that equates 
the present value of all future cash flows on the instrument to the present market price of the 
security. Future cash flows include the interest and the capital gain/loss. This is calculated as per 
the following formula:
P = {(C/(1 + y)) + (C/(1 + y)^2
) + (C/(1 + y)^3
) + …… + [(C + A)/ (1 + y)^n
)] Y is worked out through 
trial and error until the equation tallies on both the sides through process of iteration, is the YTM.
Where P is the market price at which the security is traded. C is Coupon, A is face value, Y is the 
uniform discount rate at which the cash flows are discounted.
Holding Period Yield: This is the yield that accrues to the investor in the form of coupon (interest) 
earned and gains in the price at the time of sale for the period for which he/she holds the security. 
The coupon income and price gain is reckoned as a ratio to the initial investment to arrive at the 
yield and annualized.
7.5 PREMIUM & DISCOUNT
When the rate at which the security is quoted is above its par value, i.e., above 100 (normally the 
security prices are expressed with par value = 100) the security is said to be at premium. Conversely 
when the security is quoted below par, i.e., below 100, it is said to be at discount.
There is an inverse relationship between the price and the yield to maturity (YTM). When the security 
is at premium, the price is above par, and thus high. The YTM in this case will be lower than the 
coupon rate. Conversely, the YTM would be higher than the coupon when the security is at discount. 
In other words when the security is at premium and the premium the investor pays is more than the 
face value then his return is lower than the coupon; on the other hand, when the investor pays less 
than the face value, he gets higher return than the coupon.
A deep discount bond is a security, the price of which is at discount to face value and the period of 
the security is also fairly longer. Initially, the investor pays a value which is arrived at by discounting 
the redemption value by the discount rate. On maturity, the investor gets substantial terminal value 
(redemption value). Essentially these are zero coupon instruments.
7.6 FRONT-END AND REAR-END YIELD
Generally when one refers to a yield on an instrument one implies the yield till redemption. However, 
in case of discounted instruments, the yield referred could be on a front-ended or a rear-ended basis. 
When the yield is on a rear-ended basis then it is same as the YTM. However, when the yield is 
quoted on a front-ended basis, then the YTM will be higher than the front-end yield. The following 
example will illustrate the difference.
Treasury Management.indb 82 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
INTEREST RATE QUOTATIONS AND MARKET TERMINOLOGY 83
Example
A 90-day Commercial Paper (CP) is trading at 7%. CP yield is usually quoted to a rear-end basis 
and hence it is the YTM. The price of the CP, hence will be computed as follows:
Price = (100)/(1 + (7% × 90/365) = 98.3033
Similarly, if a 91-day T-bill is traded at 98.59, then its YTM or rear-ended yield will be computed 
as follows:
Yield on the T-Bill = [(100 – 98.59)/98.59] × [365/91] = 5.74%.
However, in a BRDS transaction, the yields are quoted on a front-end basis. For example, Bank A 
lends `10 crore under BRDS at 7% for 90 days. The interest amount computation will be as follows:
Interest Due: 10,00,00,000/- × 7% × (90/365) = `17,26,027/ – Bank A has to pay the principal 
value of the transaction less the interest on the day of the transaction and will receive `10 crore 
after 90 days.
Thus Bank A pays (10,00,00,000/- – 17,26,027/-) = `9,82,73,973/-And receives `10,00,00,000/- 
after 90 days.
Thus effective yield or YTM or rear-ended yield for Bank A will be [(10,00,00,000/—9,82,73,973/-)/ 
(9,82,73,973/-)] × [365/90] = 7.12%.
7.7 DAY COUNT CONVENTIONS
The market follows quite a few conventions for calculation of the number of days that has elapsed 
between two dates. It is interesting to note that these conventions were designed prior to the 
emergence of sophisticated calculating devices. At that time, the objectives were to reduce the 
math in complicated formulae and to bring about standards so that the prices quoted are correctly 
understood by all. The conventions are still needed even though calculating functions are readily 
available in hand-held devices. The conventions used are given below.
A/360 (Actual by 360)
In this method, the actual number of days elapsed between the two dates are divided by 360, i.e., 
the year is assumed to have 360 days.
A/365 (Actual by 365)
In this method, the actual number of days elapsed between the two dates are divided by 365, i.e., 
the year is assumed to have 365 days.
A/A (Actual by Actual)
In this method, the actual number of days elapsed between the two dates are divided by the actual 
days in the year. If the year is a leap year and the 29th of February is included between the two 
dates, then 366 is used in the denominator, else 365 is used. Using this method, accrued interest 
is 3.8356.
Treasury Management.indb 83 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
84 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
30/360 (30 by 360 – American)
The interest in the case of Government securities is calculated on 30/360 method. For calculating 
the broken period interest this is a very important convention.
This is how this convention is used in the US. Break up the earlier date as D(1)/M(1)/Y(1) and 
the later date as D(2)/M(2)/Y(2). If D(1) is 31, change D(1) to 30. If D(2) is 31 AND D(1) is 3s 0, 
change D(2) to 30. The days elapsed is calculated as:
Y(2)-Y(1)*360+M(2)-M(1)*30+D(2)-D(1)
30/360 (30 by 360 – European)
This is the variation of the above convention outside the United States. Break up the earlier date as 
D(1)/M(1)/Y(1) and the later date as D(2)/M(2)/Y(2). If D(1) is 31, change D(1) to 30. If D(2) is 
31, change D(2) to 30. The days elapsed is calculated as
Y(2) – Y(1)*360 + M(2) – M(1)*30 + D(2) – D(1)
Importance of market conventions: Prices quoted in the market are driven by conventions. If three 
dealers in the market were to use different conventions such as 30/360, actual/365 or, say, 30/ 365 
the prices of securities will vary and this will make trades difficult. Conventions have an important 
role to play in smoothening of the market practices. An important convention is that all prices are 
quoted for YTM irrespective of the fact that one may buy the security and sell it the very next day 
though the security may have a residual maturity of 10 years. Here again YTM is adopted as the 
basis for arriving at a price on a uniform basis and smoothens the market quotes.
Let Us Sum Up
The price volatility in the case of a floating rate instrument will be much less than that of a fixed rate 
instrument of the same tenor. Yield is a measure of the overall return to the investor on the investment. 
There are concepts like nominal yield and current yield. Yield to maturity is the anticipated yield on 
the security if it is held till redemption and all intermittent cash flows are discounted to present value. 
When the yield is on a rear-ended basis, then it is the same as the YTM. When the yield is quoted 
on front-ended basis, then the YTM will be higher than the front-end yield. The market follows 
various day count conventions like Actual/360, Actual/365, Actual/Actual, and also American and 
European conventions.
Keywords
Fixed and floating rate of interest, simple and compound interest, nominal yield, current yield, YTM, 
premium, discount, front-end and rear-end yield, day count conventions.
Treasury Management.indb 84 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
INTEREST RATE QUOTATIONS AND MARKET TERMINOLOGY 85
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Why price volatility in floating rate instruments is less than that in fixed rate instruments?
(a) In the case of floating rate instruments the coupon gets realigned to market rate at regular 
re-set dates.
(b) In the case of floating rate instruments, volatility is subsidized by the market.
(c) In the case of floating rate instruments, the coupon is generally high as compared to fixed 
rate instruments.
(d) In the case of floating rate instruments, the frequency of coupon reset is more than in 
fixed rate instruments.
2. What is the impact on the price of fixed income instruments when the yield goes up?
(a) Increases
(b) Declines
(c) Doesn’t change
(d) Trading stops
3. When the yield is quoted on a rear end basis, what is true of following?
(a) Yield is more than YTM
(b) Yield is less than YTM
(c) Yield is same as YTM
(d) Yield is twice YTM
4. In the day count convention Actual/Actual (A/A), what are the number of days in a year?
(a) 360
(b) 365
(c) 366
(d) 365 or 366
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 85 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
 FIXED INCOME 
SECURITIES
STRUCTURE
8.0 Objective
8.1 Introduction
8.2 Terminologies
8.3 Types of Bonds
8.4 Government of India Securities
8.5 State Development Loans (SDLS)
8.6 Auction Process
8.7 When Issued Market
8.8 Other Approved Securities
8.9 Non-SLR Securities
8.10 Public Sector Undertakings’ (PSU) Bonds
8.11 Corporate Debentures
8.12 Bonds and Debentures
8.13 Some other Aspects of Fixed Income Instruments
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
8
Treasury Management.indb 86 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 87
8.0 OBJECTIVE
The objective is to provide information to the reader on fixed income securities by explaining face 
value, coupon rate, redemption amount, tenor, clean price, dirty price, etc. The section also deals 
with types of bonds like Government of India bonds and State Development Loans. The section also 
provides information on the latest concept called ‘when issued securities’. It also gives information 
on SLR, Non-SLR securities, corporate debentures, bonds and debentures. After a thorough study 
of the section, the reader can become fully aware of the intricacies in the management of fixed 
income securities.
8.1 INTRODUCTION
Fixed Income Securities are instruments wherein the interest payable (also known as “Coupon”) 
to the investor is fixed throughout the tenor of the instrument. These are securities where the 
interest payable on the face value is a given percentage. Thus the amount of interest payable 
is fixed for the period of the security. These are tradable securities which usually carry a fixed 
interest rate payable periodically, called the “Coupon” and the amount payable on maturity called 
the ‘Redemption Amount’ is also fixed. Thus the total cash flows to be received by an investor in 
such a security are fixed at the time of the issue of the security. Hence the name Fixed Income 
Security.
However, it should be noted that during the life of the security, the return may fluctuate in case the 
investor wishes to sell the security before its redemption or if the investor values the security at the 
market price at any point in time. Since the income on the face value is constant over the tenor of the 
bond, the bond will trade at premium or discount if the market rate of interest is lower or higher than 
the coupon/fixed interest. Thus the price of a fixed income security goes down when the prevailing 
interest rates go up and vice-versa. Hence an investor in a fixed income security could end up getting 
a yield which could be lesser or more, than that envisaged at the time of purchase, during the tenor 
of the instrument. However, if the investor were to hold the security till maturity then the return to 
the investor would be fixed and same as the coupon except when the initial price paid were to be a 
discount or premium to the face value, as it happens in a secondary market purchase.
In broader terms, fixed income instruments also cover ‘zero-coupon’ securities which carry a zero 
coupon. ZERO coupon bonds are discounted securities issued at a price much lower than the face 
value. The securities normally mature at face value. In such securities the redemption amount is 
greater than the original issue price. This difference is the return to the investor. There also exists 
a class of securities whose coupon is linked to a benchmark which is reset periodically during the 
tenor of the security. Such securities are known as ‘Floating Rate securities’. Returns from these 
securities are obviously variable during the tenor of the security. Because the rate of interest on the 
floating rate bonds/securities are reset from time to time, the Floating rate securities can have varying 
coupon during its tenor. It may be noted that the floating rate bonds are less exposed to interest rate 
risks as the interest rate is periodically reset.
In this chapter the securities mentioned above have been used under generic term ‘bond’.
Treasury Management.indb 87 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
88 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8.2 TERMINOLOGIES
8.2.1 Face Value
Normally the face value of a bond is the minimum denomination at which it is issued. This could 
be `10, `100, `1000 and so on. However, normally, in the market the face value of bonds is usually 
taken as `100 and all pricing is done based on this assumption.
In the case of a bond transaction, the Face Value is referred to as the total amount (in terms of face 
value) of the bonds being transacted. Thus a 5 crore bond transaction will mean that `5 crore face 
value of bonds are traded. (As bonds have, as per market convention, a face value of `100, `5 crores 
bonds transaction will mean that 500,000 bonds of face value of `100 each aggregating to `5 crores 
are traded). The price and/or outflow of funds security is not invoked when reporting a sale of a 
security. SGL of a security is also maintained for par/face value.
8.2.2 Coupon Rate
This is the rate of interest stipulated payable on a bond. Thus a bond carrying a coupon rate of 
7% p.a. will pay `7 on a face value of `100. The interest is usually paid semi-annually. Annual 
and quarterly payments are also possible. Securities nomenclatures are prefixed with coupon. For 
example, 7.80 GOI 2021 is a taxable Central Government security issued on 04.11.2011 and maturing 
on 04.11.2021 and carries a coupon of 7.80% p.a. Similarly 8.79 GOI 2021 is again a Central 
Government taxable security issued on 11.08.2011 and maturing on 11.08.2021 carrying a coupon 
of 8.79% p.a. Each security will, normally have two coupon payment dates in a year.
A security with a specific repayment date is known as dated security. As against this, a security with 
repayment period after 50 years is known as perennial security. Whereas a dated security is traded 
on a YTM basis, the perennial security is generally traded on a current yield basis.
8.2.3 Redemption Amount
It is the amount payable by the issuer of the bond to the investor holding the bond on the redemption 
date. Usually the redemption amount is equal to or greater than the face value of the bond. In the 
latter case, for a non zero-coupon bond, the part of the redemption amount which is greater than the 
face value is termed as redemption premium.
8.2.4 Tenor
The tenor of the bond is the time period from the date of issue to the redemption date.
8.2.5 Interest Payment (IP) Date(s)
IP Dates are the date(s) on which the coupon is due. On the coupon date, the bond is traded ex-interest. 
There could be some days prior to the IP date for which either the bond is not traded or trades are 
not settled. This period is termed as the shut period. The main purpose of having a shut period is 
Treasury Management.indb 88 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 89
to facilitate finalizing of the payment of maturity redemption proceeds and to avoid any change in 
ownership of securities during this process. Currently, the shut period for government securities held 
in SGL Accounts is one day. (Source: Government Securities Market – A Primer issued by RBI in 
July, 2016). However, nowadays the trading in Government Securities continues without any breaks.
8.2.6 Redemption Date(s)
These are the dates when either the full or partial redemption amounts are due to be paid by the 
issuer to the holder of the bond on that date.
8.2.7 Bullet v/s Staggered or Amortized Redemption
When the redemption amount of a bond is payable fully on one particular date it is termed as ‘Bullet 
Redemption’. On the other hand, there are bonds wherein the redemption amount is payable on more 
than one date. In such cases the redemption amounts are paid either monthly, quarterly, semi-annually 
or annually. These bonds are said to have ‘Staggered or Amortized Redemption’.
8.2.8 Clean Price
The clean price of the bond is the price payable for the face value of the bond. For example, if the clean 
price of a bond is `101/- this means for the bond of face value `100, the buyer needs to pay `101/-.
8.2.9 Dirty Price
The dirty price of a bond is the clean price plus the accrued interest from the last Interest payment date 
till the date of settlement. This is known as the interest for the broken period. For example, if the price of 
security purchased is `101 for value date on 2nd April and the interest payment date is 1st January and 
1st July, the dirty price will be `101 plus interest for the period 1st January to 1st April.
8.2.10 Trade Date
This is the date on which the bond transaction is concluded between the buyer and seller.
8.2.11 Settlement Date
This is the date on which the buyer and seller in a bond transaction exchange the bond for funds.
8.2.12 Settlement Proceeds
The settlement proceeds is the amount that the buyer of a bond needs to pay to the seller on the 
settlement date. The settlement proceeds for a bond transaction are calculated as follows:
Settlement Proceeds = [(Price of bond/100) * (Total Face Value of the transaction)] + [Accrued 
interest on the total face value of a transaction].
Treasury Management.indb 89 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
90 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8.3 TYPES OF BONDS
Bonds can be classified based on various characteristics. One can classify them as floating rate or 
fixed rate bonds depending on their coupon type. However the classification we will be using in this 
section is based on the type of issuer. On that basis, bonds can be classified as:
(i) Government Securities or SLR Securities
(ii) Non-SLR Securities
SLR Securities can be further classified as:
(i) Government of India Securities
(ii) State Development Loans
(iii) Other approved securities
Non-SLR securities can be classified as
(i) PSU Bonds
(ii) Corporate Debentures
8.4 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA SECURITIES
Central Government Loans form a part of the government’s borrowing programme in a given year. 
The loans are raised in the form of securities known as Government securities. Reserve Bank of 
India, in discharging its role as merchant banker to the Government, is vested with the power of 
offering various issues to the institutions/public on an on-going basis as per the notification issued 
by the central government in that connection.
At the beginning of every half of the Financial Year, viz., April-September and October-March, 
the government announces an issue calendar for dated securities. This calendar usually is for all or 
a major part of the budgeted borrowing programme. The calendar contains information about the 
amount of borrowing, the range of the tenor of securities (given in range of years, e.g., 5–9 years, 
10–14 years, 20+ years, etc.) and the period during which auctions will be held for each issue.
A Notification and a Press Communique giving exact particulars of the securities, viz., name, 
amount, type of issue and procedure of auction are issued by the Government of India about a week 
prior to the actual date of auction. RBI places the notification and a Press Release on its website 
(www.rbi.org.in) and also issues advertisements in leading English and Hindi newspapers. 
Securities are usually issued by way of an auction process. Auction for dated securities is conducted 
on Friday for settlement on T+1 basis (i.e., securities are issued on next working day i.e., Monday). 
The security being issued could be a security already in existence or it could be a new security. In 
the former case, it is a price based auction in which the investors bid the price at which they are 
willing to buy the reissued security. In the latter case, investors bid for the coupon rate for which 
they are willing to buy the new security. This is known as yield-based auction.
Auctions are conducted on the electronic platform called the E-Kuber, the Core Banking Solution 
(CBS) platform of RBI. Commercial banks, scheduled UCBs, Primary Dealers, insurance companies 
and provident funds, who maintain funds account (current account) and securities accounts (Subsidiary 
Treasury Management.indb 90 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 91
General Ledger (SGL) account) with RBI, are members of this electronic platform. All members 
of E-Kuber can place their bids in the auction through this electronic platform. All non-E-Kuber 
members including non-scheduled UCBs can participate in the primary auction through scheduled 
commercial banks or PDs (called as Primary Members-PMs). For this purpose, the UCBs need to 
open a securities account with a bank / PD – such an account is called a Gilt Account. A Gilt Account 
is a dematerialized account maintained with a scheduled commercial bank or PD. The proprietary 
transactions in G-Secs undertaken by PMs are settled through SGL account maintained by them 
with RBI at PDO. The transactions in G-Secs undertaken by Gilt Account Holders (GAHs) through 
their PMs are settled through Constituent Subsidiary General Ledger (CSGL) account maintained 
by PMs with RBI at PDO for its constituent (e.g., a non-scheduled UCB).
The auction conducted by the RBI is usually a variable price auction (or French auction) wherein 
applicants submit bids at their desired price. The cut-off price is usually the price at which the entire 
issue amount is fully bid. At times, as part of signaling its interest rate stance, RBI may indicate a 
cut off (a higher price or a lower coupon) wherein the bids may not result in the issue being fully 
subscribed. In such cases the issue will partially or fully devolve. Such devolvement is mandatorily 
taken up by the Primary Dealers based on their underwriting commitment given before each auction. 
Subsequent to the enactment of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM), 
RBI no longer takes any devolvement on itself.
Under multiple/variable price auction method, all successful bidders, i.e., those bidders who have 
bid at or above the cut-off prices have to buy the securities at the prices at which they had bid. Thus 
each bidder gets the security at a price which could be different from another bidder. Sometimes the 
RBI conducts a uniform price auction (or Dutch auction). In this the successful bidders are allotted 
the security at the cut-off price or yield. This implies that every bidder gets the security at a uniform 
price or yield. In both the above cases, the bidders who have bid at a price higher than the cut-off 
price will get the full quantum of securities bid by them, while those who had bid at the cut-off 
price could get partial allotment, in the same proportion of oversubscription at cut off price of the 
quantity bid as the allotment is restricted to the notified amount.
PDs are expected to support the primary issues of dated securities of Central Government and State 
Government, T-Bills and CMBs through underwriting/bidding commitments. The related guidelines 
are as under:
Dated securities of Central Government
The underwriting commitment on dated securities of Central Government will be divided into two 
parts – (a) Minimum Underwriting Commitment (MUC), and (b) Additional Competitive Underwriting 
(ACU).
The MUC of each PD will be computed to ensure that at least 50 percent of the notified amount of 
each issue is mandatorily underwritten equally by all the PDs. The share under MUC will be uniform 
for all PDs, irrespective of their capital or balance sheet size. The remaining portion of the notified 
amount will be underwritten through an ACU auction.
Bidding in Primary auctions of T-Bills/CMBs
Each PD will individually commit, at the beginning of the year (April – March), to submit bids for 
a fixed percentage of the notified amount of T-Bills/CMBs in each auction.
Treasury Management.indb 91 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
92 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
On-tap issue
This is a reissue of existing Government securities having pre-determined yields/prices by Reserve 
Bank of India. After the initial primary auction of a security, the issue remains open to further 
subscription by the investors as and when considered appropriate by RBI. The period for which the 
issue is kept open may be time specific or volume specific. The coupon rate, the interest dates and 
the date of maturity remain the same as determined in the initial primary auction. Reserve Bank of 
India may sell government securities through on tap issue at lower or higher prices than the prevailing 
market prices. Such an action on the part of the Reserve Bank of India leads to a realignment of the 
market prices of government securities. Tap stock provides an opportunity to unsuccessful bidders 
in auctions to acquire the security at the market determined rate.
The Central Government dated securities are accounted for in the Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL), 
maintained at Public Debt Office (PDO) of RBI. This accounting is in the book form and not in the 
scrip form. The Reserve Bank however, issues scrips (certificates) to the investor on request where 
the investor is not having or is not permitted to have SGL account with the Reserve Bank or on 
the basis of specific request of the SGL account holder. The SGL account is credited in the case of 
subscription/purchase by the account holder and debited in the case of sale/redemption or conversion 
to the scrips form as this is treated as sale. For all SGL account holders, all purchases and sales 
are settled in electronic form, with Delivery versus Payment (DVP) in operation. This eliminates 
counterparty risk and part of settlement risk in trading in g-secs.
The Reserve Bank of India conducts auctions usually every Wednesday to issue T-bills. Settlement for the 
T-bills auctioned is made on T+1 day i.e. on the working day following the trade day. The 91 day T-bills 
are auctioned on every Wednesday. The Treasury bills of 182 days and 364 days tenure are auctioned on 
alternate Wednesdays. T-bills of 364 days tenure are auctioned on the Wednesday preceding the reporting 
Friday while 182 T-bills are auctioned on the Wednesday prior to a non-reporting Friday. The Reserve 
Bank releases a quarterly calendar of T-bill issuances for the upcoming quarter in the last week of the 
preceding quarter. e.g. calendar for April-June period is notified in the last week of March. The Reserve 
Bank of India announces the issue details of T-bills through a press release on its website every week.
Like T-bills, Cash Management Bills (CMBs) are also issued at a discount and redeemed at face 
value on maturity. The tenor, notified amount and date of issue of the CMBs depend upon the 
temporary cash requirement of the Government. The tenors of CMBs is generally less than 91 days. 
The announcement of their auction is made by Reserve Bank of India through a Press Release on 
its website. The settlement of the auction is on T+1 basis. The non-competitive bidding scheme 
(referred to in paragraph number 4.3 and 4.4 under question No. 4) has not been extended to the 
CMBs. However, these instruments are tradable and qualify for ready forward facility. Investment 
in CMBs is also reckoned as an eligible investment in G-Secs by banks for SLR purpose under 
Section 24 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. First set of CMBs were issued on May 12, 2010.
8.5 STATE DEVELOPMENT LOANS (SDLS)
This closely follows the Central Government Loans. The issuers are various State Governments. The 
quantum of the loan depends upon the estimated requirements of various State Governments in a given 
Treasury Management.indb 92 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 93
year as submitted by the respective State Governments and notified by the Central Government to the 
Reserve Bank. These issues take place periodically during the year. The Reserve Bank while announcing 
the State Loans issue, notifies the quantum, the coupon, the date of issue, the date of redemption, calendar 
of interest payments, etc. Usually the SDLs are issued at a fixed coupon which is announced for the issue. 
However, in recent times, in some issues, the coupon was determined through auction mechanism. On 
the issue date, the successful bidders are required to deposit money at the counters of Reserve Bank of 
India. On the basis of amount received, the Reserve Bank decides to retain the notified amount and refund 
the excess received or to retain the entire subscription and allots. The accounting of the State Loans is in 
the SGL form as is in the case of Central Loans. The difference in coupon of the SDLs issued by various 
states reflects the market perception on the credit risk of the issuing State Governments.
On announcement of an auction of State Development Loans (SDLs), which are dated securities 
of the State Governments, RBI may invite PDs to collectively bid to underwrite up to 100 per cent 
of the notified amount. The auction could be either uniform price-based or multiple price-based 
depending upon the market conditions and other relevant factors, which will be announced before 
the underwriting auction for each issue. A PD can bid to underwrite up to 30 per cent of the notified 
amount of the issue. If two or more issues are floated on the same day, the limit of 30% is applied 
by taking the notified amounts separately.
8.5.1 Types of Market for Government Securities
8.5.1.1 Primary Market
The Central Governments is the issuer of Government Securities, raising money through bond 
issuances, to fund budgetary deficits and other short and long term funding requirements.
The Reserve Bank of India, acts as the investment banker to the government, raises funds for the 
government through bond (G-Sec) and treasury-bill auctions.
8.5.1.2 Participants in the Primary Market
The participants in the primary market who take part in the auction process are:
• Banks
• Primary Dealers
• Mutual Funds
• Provident Funds
• Insurance Companies
8.5.2 Secondary Market
The secondary market for Government Securities is governed by the RBI and active trading happens on 
the Negotiated Dealing System-Order Matching (NDS – OM) operated by the CCIL on behalf of the 
RBI. The participants are again the same as the ones in the primary market. All outright trades undertaken 
in the OTC market and on the NDS-OM platform are cleared through the CCIL. The settlement takes 
place by simultaneous transfer of funds and securities under the ‘Delivery versus Payment’ system.
Treasury Management.indb 93 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
94 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8.6 AUCTION PROCESS
Prior to introduction of auctions as the method of issuance, the interest rates were administratively 
fixed by the Government. With the introduction of auctions, the rate of interest (coupon rate) gets 
fixed through a market based price discovery process.
An auction may either be yield based or price based.
Yield Based Auction: A yield based auction is generally conducted when a new G-Sec is issued. 
Investors bid in yield terms up to two decimal places (e.g., 8.19%, 8.20%, etc.). Bids are arranged 
in ascending order and the cut-off yield is arrived at the yield corresponding to the notified amount 
of the auction. The cut-off yield is then fixed as the coupon rate for the security. Successful bidders 
are those who have bid at or below the cut-off yield. Bids which are higher than the cut-off yield 
are rejected. An illustrative example of the yield based auction is given below:
Yield based auction of a new security
• Maturity Date: January 11, 2026
• Coupon: It is determined in the auction (8.22% as shown in the illustration below)
• Auction date: January 08, 2016
• Auction settlement date/Issue date: January 11, 2016*
• Notified Amount: `1000 crore
*January 9 and 10 being holidays (Saturday and Sunday), settlement is done on January 11, 2016 
(T+1 settlement).
Details of bids received in the increasing order of bid yields
Bid No. Bid Yield Amount of bid
(` Cr)
Cumulative amount
(` Cr)
Price* with 
coupon as 
8.22%
1 8.19% 300 300 100.19
2 8.20% 200 500 100.14
3 8.20% 250 750 100.13
4 8.21% 150 900 100.09
5 8.22% 100 1000 100
6 8.22% 100 1100 100
7 8.23% 150 1250 99.93
8 8.24% 100 1350 99.87
The issuer would get the notified amount by accepting bids up to bid at sl. no. 5. Since the 
bid number 6 also is at the same yield, bid numbers 5 and 6 would get allotment on pro-rata 
basis so that the notified amount is not exceeded. In the above case each of bidder at sl. no. 
5 and 6 would get ` 50 crore. Bid numbers 7 and 8 are rejected as the yields are higher than 
the cut-off yield.
*Price corresponding to the yield is determined as per the relationship given under YTM calculation 
in question 24.
Treasury Management.indb 94 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 95
Price Based Auction: A price based auction is conducted when Government of India re-issues 
securities which have already been issued earlier. Bidders quote in terms of price per `100 of face 
value of the security (e.g., `102.00, `101.00, `100.00, `99.00, etc., per `100/-). Bids are arranged 
in descending order and the successful bidders are those who have bid at or above the cut-off price. 
Bids which are below the cut-off price are rejected. An illustrative example of price based auction 
is given below:
Price based auction of an existing security 8.24% GS 2018
• Maturity Date: April 22, 2018
• Coupon: 8.24%
• Auction date: January 08, 2016
• Auction settlement date: January 11, 2016*
• Notified Amount: `1000 crore
*January 9 and 10 being holidays (Saturday and Sunday), settlement is done on January 11, 2016 
under T+1 cycle.
Details of bids received in the decreasing order of bid price
Bid No. Price of bid Amount of bid
(` Cr)
Implicit yield Cumulative amount
(` Cr)
1 100.31 300 8.1912% 300
2 100.26 200 8.1987% 500
3 100.25 250 8.2002% 750
4 100.21 150 8.2062% 900
5 100.20 100 8.2077% 1000
6 100.20 100 8.2077% 1100
7 100.16 150 8.2136% 1250
8 100.15 100 8.2151% 1350
The issuer would get the notified amount by accepting bids up to 5. Since the bid number 6 also 
is at the same price, bid numbers 5 and 6 would get allotment in proportion so that the notified 
amount is not exceeded. In the above case each of bidders at sl. no. 5 and 6 would get securities 
worth `50 crore. Bid numbers 7 and 8 are rejected as the price quoted is less than the cut-off 
price.
Depending upon the method of allocation to successful bidders, auction may be conducted on Uniform 
Price basis (Dutch Auction) or Multiple Price basis (French Auction). In a Uniform Price auction, all 
the successful bidders are required to pay for the allotted quantity of securities at the same rate, i.e., 
at the auction cut-off rate, irrespective of the rate quoted by them. On the other hand, in a Multiple 
Price auction, the successful bidders are required to pay for the allotted quantity of securities at the 
respective price / yield at which they have bid. In the example under (ii) above, if the auction was 
Uniform Price based, all bidders would get allotment at the cut-off price, i.e., `100.20. On the other 
hand, if the auction was Multiple Price based, each bidder would get the allotment at the price he/ 
she has bid, i.e., bidder 1 at `100.31, bidder 2 at `100.26 and so on.
Treasury Management.indb 95 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
96 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
An investor, depending upon his eligibility, may bid in an auction under either of the following categories:
Competitive Bidding: In a competitive bidding, an investor bids at a specific price/yield and is 
allotted securities if the price/yield quoted is within the cut-off price/yield. Competitive bids are made 
by well informed institutional investors such as banks, financial institutions, PDs, mutual funds, and 
insurance companies. The minimum bid amount is `10,000 and in multiples of `10,000 in dated 
securities and minimum `25,000 in case of T-Bills and in multiples of `25,000 thereafter. Multiple 
bidding is also allowed, i.e., an investor may put in multiple bids at various prices/yield levels.
Non-Competitive Bidding (NCB): With a view to providing retail investors, who may lack skill 
and knowledge about G-Sec market or who have low demand and to enable them to participate 
in the auction directly, the scheme of NCB in dated securities was introduced in January 2002. 
NCB is open to individuals, HUFs, RRBs, co-operative banks, firms, companies, corporate bodies, 
institutions, provident funds, and trusts. Under the scheme, eligible investors apply for a certain 
amount of securities in an auction without mentioning price/yield.
A treasury auction is actually a common value auction, because the value of the auctioned security is 
the secondary market price that prevails after the auction, which is uniform for all bidders. Therefore, 
the loss to a successful bidder is less in a Dutch rather than a French auction. In our earlier example, 
assume that the secondary market price for the security, after the auction, was `110.65. If the auction 
was Dutch, the loss to all successful bidders is uniform, at 55 paise per bond. However, if the auction 
was French, the highest successful bidder will make a large loss of nearly a rupee 99 paise per bond. 
The discriminatory price auction, thus creates a ‘winner’s curse’ where a successful bidder is one 
who has priced his bid higher than the cut-off, but immediately suffers a loss in the market, if the 
after-market price is closer to cut-off, rather than his bid. There is a loss in the secondary markets, 
even in a Dutch auction, if the after-market price is lower than the cut-off.
8.6.1 Impact of an Auction on the Market
• Bullish Environment (In a falling interest rate scenario): In a bullish environment, the 
security which has been auctioned will continue to gain in the secondary market. As all the 
bidders would not have received the auctioned security in the auction process, they would be 
keen to buy it in the secondary market, whereas the successful bidders will be willing to sell 
it for a higher price. Hence, the demand will lead the prices to move northwards.
• Bearish Environment (In a rising interest rate scenario): In a bearish environment, the 
market reaction depends on whether the auction is of a new security or a re-issue of an existing 
security. In the case of a new security the market usually treats the security fairly depending on 
the tenor and the need of a security in that tenor. In case it’s a re-issue of an existing security, 
the market will take the yields up after the announcement of the auction only. The way the 
re-issued security behaves after the auction will depend on the market sentiments and at the 
price which the market factored in and the actual cut-off in the auction.
8.6.2 Motivation behind Being Short or Long in a G-Sec
Short Selling G-Sec: Short Sale is defined as sale of securities one does not own. A bank/PD can 
also undertake ‘notional’ short sale where it can sell a security short in HFT (Held for trade) category 
Treasury Management.indb 96 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 97
even if the security is held under its AFS (Available for sale)/HTM (Held to maturity) book. The 
entity originating a short sale must not be holding that security in HFT category. No naked short 
sale is permitted. The short sale is originated in a separate window in NDS=OM and security is 
delivered for settlement by borrowing the same in Clearcorp Repo Order Matching System (CROMS) 
or through market repo. The short position should be covered within a maximum period of three 
months, including the day of trade. In other words, the short sale position initiated today (trade date, 
T + 0) will have to be covered on or before close of T + 90 days.
The motive behind short selling a security can be that the price of the security is expected to fall in the 
specified time period allowed to run a short position and can be bought at a later date at a lower price. 
In other words, the person short selling the security expects the interest rates to go up. This provides 
some support against rising yields and also permits participants to hold contrarian views in the market.
The accumulated SHORT positions for any entity should not exceed 0.25% of total outstanding 
stock for non-liquid stocks and 0.75% of total outstanding stock issued of each security or `600 
crore, whichever is lower.for liquid stocks. FIMMDA announces every month the list of “Liquid 
Securities”, based on data of trading volumes.
Long Positions
The view behind being long in a security can mainly be because of an expectation in fall of interest 
rates until and unless the security has been bought for some Asset Liability Management (ALM) 
purpose or to be held till maturity.
8.7 WHEN ISSUED MARKET
‘When-Issued’ (WI) security refers to a security that has been notified for issuance but not yet 
actually issued. ‘WI’ trading takes place between the time a new issue is announced and the time it 
is actually issued. All ‘when issued’ transactions are on an ‘if’ basis, to be settled if and when the 
actual security is issued. ‘WI’ originating transactions (sale or purchase of ‘WI’ securities) can 
be undertaken only on Negotiated Dealing System-Order Matching (NDS-OM). However, 
the cover leg of the ‘WI’ transactions can be undertaken even outside the NDS-OM platform, 
i.e. through telephone market. New issuances as well as re-issues of securities are eligible for 
‘WI’ transactions. Open Positions in the ‘WI’ market are subject to the following limits:
Category
Limits
Long Short
Primary Dealers and scheduled 
commercial banks
No Limits Not exceeding 5 per cent of the 
notified amount.
Other eligible entities viz., mutual 
funds, insurance companies, 
pension funds, housing finance 
companies, NBFCs and UCBs
No Limits Not Permitted
Treasury Management.indb 97 6/19/2018 6:24:01 PM
98 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Further, aggregate net short positions (sum of all net short positions across all entities) in a new 
security will be capped at 90% of the notified amount and the same will be monitored on NDS-OM.
Only Primary Dealers (PD) and scheduled commercial banks can take a short position in the ‘WI’ 
market. In other words, non-PD entities (e.g. NBFCs) can sell the ‘WI’ security to any counter party 
only if they have a preceding purchase contract for equivalent or higher amount. The following 
example will elaborate the above.
Primary Dealer (PD) having a short position in ‘WI’ market: A PD can short sell a ‘WI’ security as 
they are also the underwriters of the auction, and intend to bid in the upcoming auction because of 
their obligation of underwriting. A PD will short, ‘WI’ security only if he believes that he will be 
able to get the security at a lower price in the auction.
Non-PD and non-banking entities having a short position in ‘WI’ market: A Non-PD/Non-Bank entity 
can only sell a ‘WI’ security if it has a preceding purchase contract for equivalent or higher amount. 
Therefore, a Non-PD entity will sell a ‘WI’ security only if it is able to sell it at a higher price than 
its buy price for the underlying purchase contract. The above two situations can or cannot arise, as 
it all depends on the market dynamics and whether market players are willing to take such positions.
When Issued market aids better price discovery.
8.8 OTHER APPROVED SECURITIES
These are eligible for SLR (Statutory Liquidity Ratio of Banks) purposes. While offering the issue 
for subscription, the issuer, generally a Central or State Government undertaking, would mention 
in the offer document that the particular security is eligible for SLR purposes and permission in 
that respect has been obtained from the Central Government. Another feature of this security is 
that the repayment of interest and principal on these securities are backed by the Central or a State 
Government’s guarantee. Generally these securities carry higher coupon than offered for the Central 
or State Government Loans for similar maturity. As compared to the Central or State Loans, the 
secondary market for these securities is not active; rather most of the times absent. Unlike the other 
two forms of securities eligible for SLR purposes, these securities are usually issued in the physical 
form. The issuers of such securities in the past have been Development Financial Institutions and 
Public Financial Institutions. Examples of these are ICICI, IDBI, NABARD, SIDBI, HUDCO, etc. 
Other issuers of such securities have been State Financial Corporations and State Electricity Boards. 
Of late, issue of such securities with SLR facility has been stopped. However, as prescribed under 
Section 20(f) of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, the Central Government by notification in 
Official Gazette may authorize issue of any such security.
8.9 NON-SLR SECURITIES
These are securities which, as the name suggests are not eligible to be reckoned towards compliance 
for SLR. These are issued by entities usually to raise resources for their project finance or for working 
capital purposes. A bulk of these securities are issued by Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) and 
Private Sector companies. Agencies such as municipal corporations also issue non-SLR securities. 
Treasury Management.indb 98 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 99
Usually these securities are in form of bonds and debentures. Various aspects of these securities are 
discussed in the following sections.
8.10 PUBLIC SECTOR UNDERTAKINGS’ (PSU) BONDS
These are Medium or long term debt instruments issued by Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). The 
term usually denotes bonds issued by the companies owned by the Government of India, or 
one of the many State or Territorial Governments, or both. The company stock needs to be 
majority-owned by the Government to be a PSU. Most of the PSU Bonds are sold on Private 
Placement Basis to the targeted investors at Market Determined Interest Rates. Often investment 
bankers are roped in as arrangers to this issue. Most of the PSU Bonds are transferable by endorsement 
and delivery and are issued in the form of Usance Promissory Note. The Public Sector Undertakings 
raise money for their projects or for their expansion programmes through issuance of bonds in an 
open market. The term or period of bonds is generally between 5 to 10 years with or without options 
for early redemption. Compared to Government Securities, the coupon on these bonds would be 
higher as they rank for higher risk weight in terms of their External Credit Rating for computing 
capital adequacy for investor. These instruments may be rated for its financial viability by the rating 
agency. Sometimes the issue may be guaranteed by the Central or the respective State Government 
to provide further financial strength. Such guarantees are called as ‘structured obligations’. The 
bonds are issued in the form of scrips. The bonds are to be listed on the National Stock Exchange 
(NSE) and/or the Stock Exchange, Mumbai (BSE). These are fairly actively traded in the secondary 
market. The bonds can be privately sold in the secondary market; but if they are listed on the NSE, 
it is obligatory for the bank to send information to the NSE on buying or selling the bond. The 
bonds are either taxable or tax-free. In the latter case, a specific permission to issue tax-free bonds 
is obtained by the PSU and this fact is mentioned in the offer document. The tax concession in the 
case of a tax free bond accrues to the investor. Thus, in the hands of the investor, post-tax yield of 
the taxable bond will be lower than the post-tax yield in the case of the tax-free bond. In case of tax 
free bond, the yield will be larger to the extent of the tax benefit enjoyed by the investor.
In recent times most of these bonds are available in the dematerialized form and the transfer of these 
bonds happen through the depository participants and the central depositories. Banks are permitted 
to hold investments in bonds in dematerialized form only.
Apart from public sector undertakings, Public Financial Institutions (PFIs) are also allowed to issue 
bonds. They access the market in two ways: – (1) Through public issues targeted at retail investors 
and trusts (2) Through private placements to large institutional investors. The maximum number of 
investors in a private placement is capped at fifty per tranche. FIs offer bonds with different features 
to meet the different needs of investors, e.g. Monthly Return Bonds, Quarterly Coupon Bearing 
Bonds, Cumulative Interest Bonds, Step up Bonds, etc. Some of these FIs are allowed to issue bonds 
(as per provisions in their respective Acts) in the form of Book entry. Hence, PFIs like IDBI, EXIM 
Bank, NHB, issue Bonds in physical and in electronic form (in the form of holding certificate or 
debenture certificate, as the case may be, in book entry form). PFIs who have provision to issue bond 
in the form of book entry are permitted under the respective Acts to design a special transfer form to 
allow transfer of such securities. Nominal stamp duty/transfer fee is payable on transfer transactions.
Treasury Management.indb 99 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
100 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8.11 CORPORATE DEBENTURES
A Debenture is a debt security issued by a company (called the Issuer), which offers to pay interest 
on the money borrowed for a certain period. In essence it represents a loan taken by the issuer 
who pays an agreed rate of interest during the lifetime of the instrument and repays the principal 
normally, unless otherwise agreed, on maturity. These are long-term debt instruments issued by 
private sector companies. These are issued in denominations as low as `1000 and have maturities 
ranging between one and ten years. Long maturity debentures are rarely issued, as investors are not 
comfortable with such maturities. Debentures enable investors to reap the dual benefits of adequate 
security and good returns. Unlike other fixed income instruments such as Fixed Deposits and Bank 
Deposits, debentures can be transferred from one party to another by using transfer form. However 
it should be noted that debentures are not negotiable. Debentures are normally issued in physical 
form. However, of late, corporates/PSUs have started issuing debentures in Demat form. Generally, 
debentures are less liquid as compared to PSU bonds and their liquidity is inversely proportional to 
the residual maturity. Debentures can be secured or unsecured.
Debentures are divided into different categories on the basis of convertibility clause of the instrument 
and security offered to protect the investors.
Convertibility is with reference to the possibility of replacing the debt by equity of the company. 
Debentures can be classified on the basis of convertibility into:
– Non-Convertible Debentures (NCD): These instruments retain the debt character and cannot 
be converted into equity shares
– Partly Convertible Debentures (PCD): A part of these instruments are converted into Equity 
shares in a future date at notice of the issuer. The issuer decides the ratio and the date for 
conversion. This is normally decided at the time of subscription.
– Fully convertible Debentures (FCD): These are fully convertible into Equity shares at the 
issuer’s notice. The ratio of conversion is decided by the issuer. Upon conversion the investors 
enjoy the same status as ordinary shareholders of the company.
– Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCD): The investor has the option to either convert these 
debentures into shares at price decided by the issuer/agreed upon at the time of issue.
On basis of Security, debentures are classified into:
Secured Debentures: These instruments are secured by a charge on the fixed assets of the issuer 
company. So if the issuer fails to pay either the principal or interest amount, his assets can be sold 
to repay the liability to the investors.
Unsecured Debentures: These instruments are unsecured in the sense that if the issuer defaults in 
payment of the interest or principal amount, the investor will be treated as unsecured creditors of 
the company.
NCD’s call for a better understanding. The Companies issue NCDs generally, to augment funds 
to finance new projects, expansion of the existing facility, or for the purpose of working capital 
requirements. The tenor of the NCDs varies from 18 months to 9–10 years at times NCDs can be 
issued for periods less than 18 months also. Whereas NCDs of 18 months and below are generally 
unsecured and not rated, long term NCDs are generally secured and need to be compulsorily rated. 
Treasury Management.indb 100 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 101
The Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 provide that an issue of secured 
debentures may be made, provided the date of its redemption shall not exceed ten years from 
the date of issue. However, the following classes of companies may issue secured debentures 
for a period exceeding ten years but not exceeding thirty years:
(i) Companies engaged in setting up of infrastructure projects
(ii) Infrastructure Finance Companies
(iii) Infrastructure Debt Fund Non-Banking Financial Companies
(iv) Companies permitted by a Ministry or Department of the Central Government or by Reserve 
Bank of India or by the National Housing Bank or by any other statutory authority to issue 
debentures for a period exceeding ten years.
Issue of debentures with an option to convert such debentures into shares, wholly or partly, can only 
be approved by a special resolution passed at a general meeting. Further, Companies are not allowed 
to issue any debentures carrying any voting rights.
Besides, in case of secured debentures, the following requirements are also mandatory:
1. A Debenture Redemption Reserve must be created except for specified companies.
2. The issuer must appoint trustees to take care of the interest of the bond holders as provided 
under Section 71(5) of the Companies Act, 2013.
The rate of interest on debentures is freely determined. It is generally higher than the coupon for the 
Government Securities and either equal to or marginally below the interest rate for the PSU bonds. 
For issue of debentures, the rules framed under Companies Act in connection with the debentures 
have to be mandatorily followed.
The Debenture Trustees are required to ascertain and satisfy themselves that the debenture certificates 
are issued in time and the interest and principal are paid on due dates.They are also required to ensure 
the creation of the security and the debenture redemption reserve. In case where listed debt securities 
are secured by way of receivables/book debts, the Trustees are required to obtain the following:
(a) Certificates giving the value of book debts / receivables from the Director/Managing Director 
of the issuer company and an independent Chartered Accountant on quarterly basis.
(b) Certificate giving the value of book debts / receivables from the statutory auditor on yearly 
basis.
Issuing company should submit to the debenture holders a certificate issued by the company’s 
auditors once a year, in respect of utilization of funds during the implementation of the project and 
in the case of debentures issued for financing working capital, at the end of each accounting year.
8.12 BONDS AND DEBENTURES
Debentures and bonds are debt instruments, issued by corporate bodies, literally with a charge on 
specific assets. However, the literal meaning has been lost in practice and debentures and bonds can 
be issued with or without security. It is fairly common that the debt instruments are also issued with 
a floating charge or a lien on assets – where security is more of a technical nature to give comfort 
to the investors.
Treasury Management.indb 101 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
102 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
In India, conventionally, debentures are debt instruments issued by corporates in private sector, 
while bonds are issued by institutions in public sector, which distinction really has no meaning in 
international market. Bonds, though issued by public sector companies, do not imply guarantee by 
the government, unless it is so mentioned specifically in the terms of the issue, as also on the face 
of the bond.
In domestic market, there are material differences in debentures and bonds. Debentures are governed 
by relevant provisions of Company Law and are transferable only by registration. Bonds on the 
other hand are negotiable instruments governed by law of contracts, and are generally transferable 
by endorsement. Long-term debt securities issued by the Government of India or any of the State 
Governments or undertakings owned by them or by development financial institutions are called as 
bonds. Instruments issued by other entities are called debentures. The difference between the two is 
actually on the basis where they are registered, payment of stamp duty and how they trade.
Stamp duty is a state subject and the duty varies from State to State. There are two kinds of stamp 
duties levied on debentures, viz., issuance and transfer. Issuance stamp duty is paid in the State where 
the principal mortgage deed is registered. Over the years, issuance stamp duties have been coming 
down. Stamp duty on transfer is paid to the State in which the registered office of the company is 
located. Transfer stamp duty remains high in many states and is probably the biggest deterrent for 
trading in debentures in physical segment, resulting in poor liquidity.
On issuance, stamp duty is linked to mortgage creation, wherever applicable while on transfer, it 
is levied in accordance with the laws of the State in which the registered office of the company in 
question is located. A debenture transfer has to be effected through a transfer form prescribed for under 
Companies Act. Incidence of stamp duty on bonds is dealt under Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central 
Act). A bond is transferable by endorsement and delivery without payment of any transfer stamp duty.
Debentures and bonds may be issued with differing structures in order to enhance the marketability 
of the instruments as also to reduce the cost of issue. The variations include structured obligations, 
with put/call or convertibility options, zero coupon bonds, floating rate bonds, deep discount bonds 
and instruments with step up coupons. Debentures and bonds are also issued with redemption in 
installments over a period (sometimes called period bonds) and also with a premium on redemption 
in addition to coupon rate of interest. Debentures which are not secured by mortgages, but are 
secured by stocks or other collateral, are also referred to as collateralized obligations. Finally, there 
are also bonds with put/call option and step up coupons, with the incentive of higher interest for nonredemption of the bonds in early stages. The debenture and bond holders have, like other creditors, 
prior legal claim over the equity and preference stock holders, on the assets of the company. The issuer 
appoints a Trustee, most commonly when the debentures and bonds are secured, who would act in 
fiduciary capacity to protect the interests of the debenture and bond holders. The Trustee, by virtue 
of the Trust Deed executed by the issuer, holds charge of the security and would be instrumental in 
initiating legal action for recovery of principal/interest in case of any default. The Trustees, as per 
SEBI guidelines, are to be vested with requisite powers for protecting the rights of the debenture and 
bond holders, and have a right to appoint a nominee director on the board of the issuing company.
Companies issuing unsecured debentures and bonds are required to comply with the provisions of 
the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 1975 as amended from time to time.
Treasury Management.indb 102 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 103
Issue of Prospectus for public offer of debentures and bonds is governed by relevant provisions of 
Companies’ Act, similar to the provision for offer of equity. SEBI has also evolved a framework of 
detailed guidelines for protection of investors’ rights.
8.13 SOME OTHER ASPECTS OF FIXED INCOME INSTRUMENTS
There is a variety of financial instruments available in the market for mobilization of long term and 
short term resources. While the shares and debentures have been conventional instruments, there 
are different structures available, some of which are:
Interest rate related: Interest rate can be fixed or floating. Floating rates are variously linked with 
call rates, bank rate or government security rate, though a firm reference note is not yet available in 
the market. There are also instruments where interest rates are linked with index of inflation so that 
real interest rate return stands protected.
Interest rate stated on the face of the debt instrument is called coupon rate. Some debentures/bonds 
are issued with step-up coupons, where interest rate varies from period to period within the maturity 
date – generally on an ascending scale from year to year.
Security related: Debentures/bonds may be secured or unsecured. While conventionally, security is 
by way of mortgage, or floating charge on fixed assets, some of the new instruments are structured 
with charge on receivables (generally deposited in an escrow account) pertaining to a specific activity 
or generated in a specific area. Clean instruments with guarantee by government or parent company 
are also gaining popularity.
Securitized bonds are instruments with an underlying asset, income from which would go to 
meet obligations under the bond, and are commonly issued through a special purpose vehicle/ 
company. For instance, a bank may issue bonds representing all its mortgage receivables 
through this route. Securitized bonds are preferred by the issuers for credit enhancement and 
for obtaining liquidity from the existing assets. These are broadly termed Collateralized Debt 
Obligations (CDO).
Options: A debt instrument can have certain inbuilt options. Convertibility option refers to conversion 
of debt into equity (always at the option of the investor if the conversion is to take place after 18 
months of issue), either in full or in part. A put option is an option in favour of holder of the instrument 
to redeem the investment on a particular date, or during a specified period, before maturity. Call 
option is the right of the issuer to prepay the debt (i.e., to call back the debt paper) similarly before 
maturity date. The options infuse flexibility into the debt issues so that the issuer/holder can take 
advantage of the prevailing market conditions.
Tax status: Interest earned on certain securities (e.g., in infrastructure sector) has been exempted 
from income tax. Investment in certain bonds entitle the investor exemptions from capital gains 
tax. Pricing of such securities takes into account the value of tax exemption, with the result that the 
cost of the issue is lower, while the holder would relatively have higher pretax yields. Bonds and 
debentures which are exempt from tax directly compete with redeemable preference shares, as the 
dividend from the latter is also exempt from tax.
Treasury Management.indb 103 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
104 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Risk weight: Bonds/debentures may also differ in respect of their risk weight for the purpose of Banks’ 
capital adequacy requirement. For instance, SLR securities have negligible capital requirements, 
while PSU Bonds of some financial institutions bear 20% risk weight, while corporate bonds have 
been assigned higher risk weight linked to their Credit Rating.
Let Us Sum Up
Face value of the bond is the minimum denomination at which it is issued. Coupon rate is the rate of 
interest stipulated payable on a bond. Dirty price of a bond is the clean price plus the accrued interest 
from the last interest payment date till the date of settlement. The auction for government securities 
conducted by RBI is usually a variable price auction (or French auction) wherein applicants submit 
bids at their desired price. Sometimes RBI conducts a uniform price auction (or a Dutch auction). 
‘When-Issued’ security refers to a security that has been authorised for issuance but is not actually 
issued. A Corporate Debenture is a debt security issued by a company which offers to pay interest on 
the money borrowed for a certain period. Debentures are transferable only by registration but bonds 
are negotiable. Bonds/Debentures may also differ in respect of their risk weight for the purpose of 
Bank’s capital adequacy requirements.
Keywords
Face value, coupon rate, tenor, bullet, staggered and amortized redemption, clean price, dirty price, 
SLR and Non-SLR bonds, GOI securities, ‘when-issued’ securities, French and Dutch auction, Bonds 
and Debentures and risk weights.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is the dirty price of a bond?
(a) Clean price plus the accrued interest
(b) Discounted price
(c) Market price
(d) Face value of the bond
2. Who underwrites issue of Government Securities?
(a) Reserve Bank of India
(b) Primary Dealers
(c) NABARD
(d) Commercial Banks
3. What is the Open position limit in the ‘WI’ market for PDs in the case of re-issued securities?
(a) Short position not exceeding 6% of the notified amount
(b) Long or short position not exceeding 10% of the notified amount
(c) Short position not exceeding 5% of the notified amount
(d) Long position not exceeding 10% of the notified amount
Treasury Management.indb 104 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES 105
4. Some bonds are issued with ‘step up’ coupons. What is meant by ‘step up’ coupon?
(a) Coupons payable are reinvested
(b) Coupons payable are discounted
(c) Coupons are included in the redemption amount
(d) Coupons payable are stepped up periodically
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 105 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
 OTHER CAPITAL
MARKET INSTRUMENTS
STRUCTURE
9.0 Objective
9.1 Introduction
9.2 Equity Shares
9.3 Preference Shares
9.4 External Commercial Borrowing (ECB)
9.5 Global Depository Receipts (GDRS)
9.6 American Depository Receipts (ADRS)
9.7 Indian Depository Receipts
9.8 The RBI Circular
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
9
Treasury Management.indb 106 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 107
9.0 OBJECTIVE
After a study of this section, the reader becomes very comfortable with various types of capital 
market instruments like Equity shares, Preference shares, External Commercial Borrowings, ADRs, 
and GDRS etc. Recently IDRs (Indian Depository Receipts) are also allowed to be issued in the 
Indian Market and Standard Chartered Bank is the first foreign entity to issue IDRs. Off late Masala 
Bonds, denominated in Indian Rupees are allowed to be issued to foreign entities providing one 
more additional avenue for raising resources. Hence information is also given on Indian Depository 
Receipts and Masala Bonds thus completing the subject.
9.1 INTRODUCTION
In the previous chapters details of money market instruments as well as fixed income instruments 
have been studied. In this chapter it is proposed to look at capital market instruments which relate 
to shareholder funds. This chapter will also cover instruments by which Indian companies can raise 
funds in the overseas markets.
9.2 EQUITY SHARES
A Public Limited Company is managed by Board of Directors appointed by the equity shareholders. 
Equity holders are entitled for a dividend from the distributable profits of the company at a rate 
decided by the Board of Directors. Equity holders also bear the final risk of corporate performance, 
i.e. they may forego their earnings and suffer loss of capital, if the company becomes insolvent. 
Equity shares are tradable in the secondary market. These shares can be issued at a premium or at a 
discount, depending on the earnings status of the company. Market price of the shares depends upon 
many factors such as earnings, dividend payout, liquidity, and economic situation. In the secondary 
market also, a share can be traded at premium or discount.
According to Companies Act, 2013 (which has replaced the Companies Act, 1956), a share is 
share in the share capital of the company and includes stock. This is one of the instruments in 
which RBI has permitted banks to invest since 1994. A share is the interest of a shareholder in 
the company measured by a sum of money, for the purpose of liability in the first place but also 
consisting of a series of mutual covenants entered into by all the shareholders inter se in accordance 
with the Companies Act, 1862. Shares are transferable and therefore described as a movable 
property. Each share in the company shall be distinguished by its appropriate number. A share 
certificate is a document stating the person named therein as the registered holder of the shares 
and amount mentioned thereon. Every company shall within two months after the allotment of 
shares, issue share certificate to the applicant who has been allotted shares and who has paid fully 
with regard to the particular share issue. Equity shareholder enjoys the voting rights and in good 
times a better dividend. Similarly, due to the transferable nature it is traded on a recognized stock 
exchange and thus provides capital gains opportunity to the holder. A few years back shares were 
held by investors in form of physical certificates and were transferred between two entities by a 
prescribed procedure. Accordingly a share was transferred by using a prescribed form which was 
required to be duly stamped and executed by or on behalf of the transferor and by or on behalf 
Treasury Management.indb 107 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
108 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
of the transferee. The present rules namely Companies (Share Capital And Debentures) Rules, 
2014 provide that an instrument of transfer of securities held in physical form shall be in Form 
No.SH.4 and every instrument of transfer with the date of its execution specified thereon shall be 
delivered to the company within sixty days from the date of such execution.
Over the past few years, shares are being issued and traded in paperless or ‘dematerialized’ 
form. As per the present requirements, all public issues of size in excess of `10 crore, are to 
made compulsorily in demat mode. There are two central depositories, viz., National Security 
Depository Ltd. (NSDL), sponsored by National Stock Exchange & other institutions and the 
Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL), sponsored by Bombay Stock Exchange and other 
institutions. The NSDL and CDSL have several Depository Participants (DP) which are banks and 
entities like the Stock Holding Corporation of (India) Ltd. (SHCIL). All stocks and stock registers 
are maintained in electronic form by NSDL and CDSL. The shareholders open ‘demat’ accounts 
with the DPs wherein their individual stocks are held in electronic form.
SEBI has already made it obligatory to deal in listed stocks only in Dematerialized form. The seller 
gives instruction to the DP to transfer their stock to the broker/buyer electronically and gets payment 
from the broker/buyer in return. The stocks are credited to the buyer’s account with the DP. Even in 
Public Issues the successful subscriber’s DP account is credited with the requisite shares.
Shares are tradable and therefore, subject to the vagaries of the market forces. Shares are dealt on 
the recognized stock exchanges which provide the prices from time to time on the trading floor 
where deals take place. These deals are passed through the recognized members (stock brokers) of 
the respective stock exchange.
The stock exchanges are also electronically enabled these days. Accordingly a broker trades in the 
stock exchange through computer terminals and an investor can place his orders with the broker 
over telephone or through the net.
9.3 PREFERENCE SHARES
Preference shareholders assume only limited risk, since the rate of dividend is predetermined and 
dividend is payable in arrears (in case of cumulative preference shares) in preference to dividend 
on equity shares. They also receive precedence in repayment of capital over equity holders, in 
case of liquidation of a company. Preference shareholders, however, have no voting rights and do 
not participate in the management of the company. However, voting rights accrue to preference 
shareholders when dividend is in arrears for two years. Though the shares are marketable, they are 
not widely traded on account of a fixed dividend.
In India, only redeemable preference shares can be issued where the capital is repaid to the 
shareholders after a fixed period, say after 3 or 5 years. The redemption period cannot exceed 
20 years. For this reason, preference shares have become more of a debt instrument, with the risk 
confined to the return on investment, i.e., fixed dividend, payment of which is dependent on earnings 
of the company. However, a company is allowed to issue preference shares for a period exceeding 
twenty years for infrastructure projects, subject to the redemption of a minimum ten per cent of such 
preference shares per year from the twenty first year onwards or earlier, on proportionate basis, at 
the option of the preference shareholders.
Treasury Management.indb 108 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 109
Preference shares can also be issued with a convertibility provision, to make the shares convertible 
into equity shares within a given period. Dividend paid on equity and preference shares is currently 
exempt from income tax, and hence effective post tax return, depending on the tax status of the 
investor, is higher than the actual dividend.
Warrants are forms of equity instruments, which entitle the holder to convert the warrants into equity, 
at a fixed price, or at market price prevailing on a particular date.
An ordinary preference share carries a fixed dividend which is payable before the equity shares 
are paid any dividend. However, if the company does not make any profit the preference 
shareholders will not get the preference dividend. The various types of preference shares are 
as illustrated below;
TYPES OF
PREFERENCE 
SHARES
Convertibility
Basis
Redeemability 
Basis
Dividend payout 
Basis
Cumulative Convertible Redeemable
NonCumulative
NonConvertible Irredeemable
Participating
NonParticipating
1. In case of Cumulative Preference Shares, the dividends are allowed to be accumulated when 
the company’s resources are not adequate in a given year and then carried forward to be paid 
out of the future profits. Non-Cumulative shareholders do not enjoy this privilege.
2. In case of participating preference shares, the shareholders can participate in surplus fund 
and in surplus assets and profits, on winding up which may remain after the entire capital has 
been repaid. In case of non-participating shares, this advantage is missing.
3. In case of Convertible preference shares can be converted into equity, whereas non-convertible 
preference shares cannot be so converted.
4. As already explained, only Redeemable Preference Shares, where the shares are to be redeemed 
in the maximum period of twenty years except in case of shares issued by Companies for 
Infrastructure Projects. Can be issued in India? Irredeemable preference shares, though 
theoretically possible, are not allowed to be issued in India.
Treasury Management.indb 109 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
110 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
In the case of the redeemable shares, the company informs the preference shareholders before the 
date of redemption to send the share certificates duly discharged and pre-receipt for redeeming the 
share and making payment thereof. Like the equity share the preference share also can be transferred 
and the procedure and rules for the transfer are the same as are in the case of the equity shares.
For a company issuing preference capital, the advantages are that the Debt Equity ratio is not adversely 
affected as this is reckoned as equity, while the Earnings Per Share (EPS) is also not lowered as 
preference shareholders are not entitled to discretionary dividend as payable to ordinary shareholders.
9.4 EXTERNAL COMMERCIAL BORROWING (ECB)
External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) refer to commercial loans [in the form of bank loans, buyers’ 
credit, suppliers’ credit, securitized instruments (e.g., floating rate notes and fixed rate bonds, nonconvertible, optionally convertible or partially convertible preference shares/debentures), 
financial lease, foreign currency convertible bonds and foreign currency exchangeable bonds availed 
from recognized non-resident lenders with minimum average maturity of 3 years. ECB framework 
is not applicable in respect of the investment in Non-convertible Debentures (NCDs) in India made 
by Registered Foreign Portfolio Investors (RFPIs). Hitherto, ECB was accessible under two routes, 
viz., (i) Automatic Route, and (ii) Approval Route. However, the present framework makes available 
ECB under three tracks, as detailed below.
Track 1: Medium term foreign currency denominated ECB with minimum average maturity 3/5 years.
Track 2: Long term foreign currency denominated ECB with minimum average maturity of 10 years.
Track 3: Indian Rupee denominated ECB with minimum average maturity 3/5 years.
Other than Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds (FCEB), all other forms of borrowing can be 
raised both under the automatic and approval routes, where the borrower can directly approach any 
Authorised Dealer Category 1 bank. For accessing through FCEB, the borrower must first obtain 
approval from RBI, routing their application through an AD bank.
9.4.1 Track I
(i) Eligible Borrowers:
(a) Companies in manufacturing and software development sectors.
(b) Shipping and airline companies.
(c) Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI).
(d) Units in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
(e) Export Import Bank of India (only under approval route)
(f) Companies in infrastructure sector, Non-Banking Financial Companies-Infrastructure 
Finance Companies (NBFC-IFCs), NBFCs-Asset Finance Companies (NBFC-AFCs), 
Holding Companies and Core Investment Companies (CICs).
(ii) Recognized Lenders: Borrowers can raise ECB from internationally recognised sources such 
as (i) international banks, (ii) international capital markets, (iii) multilateral financial institutions 
(such as IFC, ADB, etc.)/regional financial institutions and Government owned (either wholly 
Treasury Management.indb 110 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 111
or partially) financial institutions, (iv) export credit agencies, (v) suppliers of equipment, 
(vi) foreign equity holders, (vii) Overseas long term investors like prudentially regulated 
financial entities, pension funds, insurance companies, Sovereign Wealth Funds and financial 
institutions located in International Financial Services Centres in India and (viii) Overseas 
Branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks. Overseas branches/subsidiaries of Indian Banks can be 
lenders only under Track–I and their participation under this track is subject to the prudential 
norms issued by the Department of Banking Regulation, RBI. Overseas branches/subsidiaries 
of Indian banks are permitted only to refinance ECBs of highly rated (AAA) corporates as well 
as Navratna and Maharatna PSUs, provided the outstanding maturity of the original borrowing 
is not reduced and all-in-cost of fresh ECB is lower than the existing ECB. Partial refinance 
of existing ECBs is also permitted subject to same conditions.
 Overseas organizations planning to extend ECB would have to furnish a certificate of due 
diligence from an overseas bank which in turn is subject to regulation of host-country regulator 
and adheres to Financial Action Task Force (FATF) guidelines on anti-money laundering 
(AML)/combating the financing of terrorism (CFT) to the designated AD. The certificate of 
due diligence should comprise the following (i) that the lender maintains an account with the 
bank for at least a period of two years, (ii) that the lending entity is organised as per the local 
law and held in good esteem by the business/local community and (iii) that there is no criminal 
action pending against it.
Individual Lender has to obtain a certificate of due diligence from an overseas bank indicating 
that the lender maintains an account with the bank for at least a period of two years. Other 
evidence/documents such as audited statement of account and income tax return which the 
overseas lender may furnish need to be certified and forwarded by the overseas bank. Individual 
lenders from countries which do not adhere to FATF guidelines on AML / CFT are not eligible 
to extend ECB.
(iii) Amount and Maturity:
(a) ECB up to USD 50 million or equivalent with minimum average maturity of three years
(b) ECB above USD 50 million or equivalent with minimum average maturity of five years
(c) The maximum amount of ECB which can be raised by a corporate is USD 500 million 
during a financial year. For companies in infrastructure and manufacturing sector, the cap 
is at USD 750 million, for those in software development sector, it is USD 200 million 
and for those in micro finance activities, it is USD 100 million. ECB proposals beyond 
aforesaid limits will come under the approval route.
(d) The minimum average maturity period for Companies in infrastructure sector, NonBanking Financial Companies -Infrastructure Finance Companies (NBFC-IFCs), NBFCsAsset Finance Companies (NBFC-AFCs), Holding Companies and Core Investment 
Companies (CICs), Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs)/Foreign Currency 
Exchangeable Bonds (FCEBs) shall be five years irrespective of the amount of borrowing.
(e) The call and put option, if any, for FCCBs shall not be exercisable prior to 5 years.
(iv) All-in-cost ceilings: All-in-cost includes rate of interest, other fees, expenses, charges, guarantee 
fees whether paid in foreign currency or Indian Rupees except commitment fee, pre-payment fee/
charges, and withholding tax payable in Indian Rupees. In the case of fixed rate loans, the swap 
cost plus spread should be equivalent of the floating rate plus the applicable spread.
Treasury Management.indb 111 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
112 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The all-in-cost ceilings for ECB are indicated from time to time. The following ceilings are 
valid till reviewed:
Minimum Average Maturity Period All-in-cost Ceilings over six month LIBOR*
Three years and up to five years 300 basis points per annum
More than five years 450 basis points per annum
*Or applicable benchmark for the respective currency of borrowing.
Penal Interest, if any, for default or breach of covenants, not to exceed 2% over the contracted 
rate of borrowing.
(v) End-use:
(1)ECB can be raised for meeting capital expenditure in the form of
(a) import of capital goods including payment towards import of services, technical 
knowhow and license fees, provided the same are part of these capital goods.
(b) Local sourcing of capital goods
(c) New project
(d) Modernization/expansion of existing unit
(e) Overseas Direct Investment in Joint Ventures/Wholly Owned Subsidiaries
(f) Acquisition of shares of public sector undertakings at any stage of disinvestment 
programme of the Government of India
(g) Refinancing of existing trade credit raised for import of capital goods
(h) Payment of capital goods already shipped/imported, but unpaid
(i) Refinancing of existing ECB provided the residual maturity is not reduced.
(2) SIDBI can raise ECB only for the purpose of on-lending to the borrowers in micro, small 
and medium enterprises where MSME sector is defined under MSME Development Act, 
2006, as amended from time to time.
(3) Units in SEZs can raise ECB only for their own requirements.
(4) Shipping and airline companies can raise ECB only for import of vessels and aircrafts 
respectively. This condition will be applicable for all three tracks.
(5) ECB proceeds can be used for general corporate purpose (including working capital) 
provided the ECB is raised from the direct/indirect equity holder or from a group company 
for minimum average maturity of 5 years.
(6) NBFC-IFCs and NBFC-AFCs can raise ECB only for financing infrastructure.
(7) Holding Companies and CICs shall use ECB proceeds only for on-lending to infrastructure 
Special Purpose vehicles(SPVs)
(8) ECBs for the following purposes will be considered only under the approval route:
(a) Import of second hand goods as per Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) guidelines.
(b) On-lending by Exim Bank.
9.4.2 Track 2
(i) Eligible borrowers
(a) All entities listed under Track 1
(b) Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) and Infrastructure Investment Trusts (INVITs) 
coming under the regulatory framework of the SEBI
Treasury Management.indb 112 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 113
(ii) Recognized Lenders: All entities listed under Track 1 except overseas branches/subsidiaries 
of Indian Banks.
(iii) Minimum Average maturity period: Ten years irrespective of the amount.
(iv) All-in-cost ceilings: All-in-cost includes rate of interest, other fees, expenses, charges, 
guarantee fees whether paid in foreign currency or Indian Rupees except commitment fee, prepayment fee/charges, and withholding tax payable in Indian Rupees. In the case of fixed rate 
loans, the swap cost plus spread should be equivalent of the floating rate plus the applicable 
spread.
The all-in-cost ceilings for ECB under Track 2 is capped at 500 basis points per annum over 6 
months LIBOR or the applicable benchmark.The remaining conditions will be as given in Track I.
9.4.3 Track 3
(1) Eligible Borrowers:
(a) All entities listed under Track 2.
(b) All Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs).
(c) NBFCs-Micro Finance Institutions, Not for profit companies registered under Companies 
Act, Societies, trusts and cooperatives, Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) which 
are engaged in micro finance activities. Entities engaged in micro finance activities to 
be eligible to raise ECB: 1) should have a satisfactory borrowing relationship for at least 
three years with an AD Category I bank in India and 2) should have a certificate of due 
diligence on “fit and proper” status from the AD Category I bank.
(d) Companies engaged in miscellaneous services viz. research and development (R&D), 
training (other than educational institutes), companies supporting infrastructure, 
companies providing logistics services.
(e) Developers of Special Economic Zones (SEZs)/National Manufacturing and Investment 
Zones (NMIZs).
(2) Recognized Lenders: All entities listed under Track 1, except overseas branches/subsidiaries 
of Indian banks. In case of NBFC-MFIs, other eligible MFIs, Not For Profit Companies and 
NGOs, ECB can also be availed from overseas organisations and individuals.
Overseas organizations proposing to lend ECB would have to furnish to the AD bank of the 
borrower a certificate of due diligence from an overseas bank, which in turn, is subject to 
regulation of host country regulators and such host country adheres to the Financial Action 
Task Force (FATF) guidelines on Anti Money Laundering (AML)/combating the financing 
of terrorism (CFT). The certificate of due diligence should comprise the following: (1) that 
the lender maintains an account with the bank at least for a period of two years, (2) that the 
lending entity is organized as per the local laws and held in good esteem by the business/local 
community, and (3) that there is no criminal action pending against it.
Individual lender has to obtain a certificate of due diligence from an overseas bank indicating 
that the lender maintains an account with the bank for at least a period of two years. Other 
evidence/documents such as audited statement of account and income tax return, which 
the overseas lender may furnish, need to be certified and forwarded by the overseas bank. 
Treasury Management.indb 113 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
114 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Individual lenders from countries which do not adhere to FATF guidelines on AML/CFT are 
not eligible to extend ECB.
(3) Minimum Average Maturity : Same as under Track 1
(4) All in Cost: The all in cost must be in line with market conditions.
(5) End use prescriptions:
(i) NBFCs can use ECB proceeds only for
 (a) On lending to infrastructure sector sector as permitted bythe concerned regulatory 
department of RBI
(b)  Providing hypothecated loans to domestic entities for acquisition of capital goods/
equipment, and
(c)  Providing capital goods/equipment to domestic entities by way of lease and hire 
purchases.
(ii) Developers of SEZs/NMIZs can raise ECB only for providing infrastructure facilities 
within SEZ/NMIZ.
(iii) NBFCs-MFI, other eligible MFIs, NGOs and Not For Profit Companies registered under 
Companies Act, 1956/2013 can raise ECB only for on lending to Self-Help Groups 
(SHGs) or for micro credit or for bona fide micro finance activity including capacity 
building.
(iv) For other eligible entities under this Track, the ECB proceeds can be used for all purposes 
except as under
 (a) Real Estate activities
 (b) Investing in capital market
 (c) Equity investment domestically
 (d) On lending to other entities with any of the above objectives
 (e) Purchase of land
Start Ups, recognized by GOI, can access the ECB market for maximum borrowing of USD 3 million 
or equivalent per financial year either in Indian Rupees or any convertible foreign currency or a 
combination of both, with minimum average maturity of three years.
9.4.4 Individual Limits
The individual limits refer to the amount of ECB which can be raised in a financial year under the 
automatic route.
(1) The individual limit of ECB that can be raised by eligible entities under the automatic route 
per financial year for all the three tracks are as under:
(a) Upto USD 750 million or equivalent for the companies in infrastructure and manufacturing 
sectors, Non-Banking Financial Companies-Infrastructure Finance Companies (NBFCIFCs), NBFCs-Asset Finance Companies (NBFC-AFCs), Holding Companies and Core 
Investment Companies,
(b) Upto USD 200 million or equivalent for companies in software development sector,
(c) Upto USD 100 million or equivalent for entities engaged in micro finance activities, and
(d) Upto USD 500 million or equivalent for remaining entities.
Treasury Management.indb 114 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 115
(2) ECB proposals beyond aforesaid limits will come under the approval route. For computation 
of individual limits under Track III, exchange rate prevailing on the date of agreement should 
be taken to account.
(3) In case the ECB is raised from direct equity holder, aforesaid individual limits will also be 
subject to ECB liability: equity ratio requirement. For ECB raised under the automatic route, 
the ECB liability of the borrower (including all outstanding ECBs and the proposed one) 
towards the foreign equity holder should not be more than four times the equity contributed 
by the latter. For ECB raised under approval route, this ratio should not be more than 7:1. This 
ratio will not be applicable if total of all ECBs raised by an entity is up to USD 5 million or 
equivalent.
For the purpose of ECB liability: equity ratio, the paid up capital, free reserves (including the 
share premium received in foreign currency) as per the latest audited balance sheet can be 
reckoned for calculating the “equity” of the foreign equity holder. Where there are more than 
one foreign equity holders in the borrowing company, the portion of the share premium in 
foreign currency brought in by the lender(s) concerned shall only be considered for calculating 
the ratio.
9.4.5 Currency of Borrowing
ECB can be raised in any freely convertible foreign currency as well as in Indian Rupees, as detailed 
below.
(1) In case of rupee denominated ECB, the non – resident lender, other than foreign equity 
holder, should mobilise Indian Rupees through swaps/outright sale undertaken through an 
AD Category I bank in India.
(2) Change of currency of ECB from one convertible currency to any other convertible foreign 
currency as well as to INR is freely permitted. Change of currency from INR to any foreign 
currency is, however, not permitted.
(3) Change of currency of ECB into INR can be at the exchange rate prevailing on the date 
of the agreement between the parties concerned for such change or at an exchange rate 
which is less than the rate prevailing on the date of agreement if consented to by the ECB 
lender.
9.4.6 Hedging Requirements
Companies in infrastructure sector, Non-Banking Financial Companies-Infrastructure Finance 
Companies (NBFC-IFCs), NBFCs-Asset Finance Companies (NBFC-AFCs). Holding Companies 
and Core Investment Companies (CICs) are required to have a board approved risk management 
policy and are required to keep their ECB exposure hedged 100 per cent at all times. Further, the 
designated AD Category-I bank is required to verify that 100 per cent hedging requirement is 
complied with during the currency of ECB and report the position to RBI through ECB 2 returns. 
The entities raising ECB under the provisions of Track 1 and 2 are required to follow the guidelines 
for hedging issued, if any, by the applicable sectoral or prudential regulator I respect of foreign 
currency exposure.
Treasury Management.indb 115 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
116 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
9.4.7 Security for raising ECB
AD Category I banks are permitted to allow creation of charge on immovable assets, movable 
assets, financial securities and issue of corporate and/or personal guarantees in favour of overseas 
lender/security trustee, to secure the ECB to be raised/raised by the borrower, subject to satisfying 
themselves that;
(1) The underlying ECB is in compliance with the extant ECB guidelines.
(2) There exists a security clause in the Loan Agreement requiring the borrower to create charge, 
in favour of overseas lender/security trustee, on immovable assets/financial securities/issuance 
of corporate and or personal guarantee, and
(3) No objection certificate, as applicable, from the existing lenders in India has been obtained.
9.4.8 Additional Conditions
Once aforesaid stipulations are met, the AD category I bank may permit creation of charge, during 
the currency of the ECB with security co-terminating with underlying ECB, subject to the following;
(a) Creation of Charge on Immovable Assets: The arrangement shall be subject to the following:
(1) Such security shall be subject to provisions contained in the FEMA (Acquisition and 
Transfer of Immovable Property in India) Regulations, 2000.
(2) The permission should not be construed as a permission to acquire immovable asset 
(property) in India, by the overseas lender/security trustee.
(3) In the event of enforcement o/invocation of the charge, the immovable asset/property 
will have to be sold only to a person resident in India and the sale proceeds shall be 
repatriated to liquidate the outstanding ECB.
(b) Creation of Charge on Movable Assets: In the event of enforcement/invocation of the charge, the 
claim of the lender whether the lender takes over the movable asset or otherwise, will be restricted 
to the outstanding claim against the ECB. Encumbered movable assets may also be taken out of 
the country subject to getting “No Objection Certificate” from domestic lender/s, if any.
(c) Creation of Charge over Financial Securities: The arrangements may be permitted subject 
to the following:
(1) Pledge of shares of the borrowing company held by the promoters as well as in domestic 
associate companies of the borrower is permitted. Pledge on other financial securities, 
viz. bonds and debentures, Government Securities, Government Savings Certificates, 
deposit receipts of securities and units of the Unit Trust of India or of any mutual funds, 
standing in the name of ECB borrower/promoter, is also permitted.
(2) In addition, security interest over all current and future loan assets and all current assets 
including cash and cash equivalents, including Rupee accounts of the borrower/promoter, 
can be used as security for ECB. The Rupee accounts of the borrower/promoter can also 
be in the form of escrow arrangement or debt service reserve account.
(3) In case of invocation of pledge, transfer of financial securities shall be in accordance with 
the extant FDI/FII policy including provisions relating to sectoral cap and pricing as 
applicable, read with the FEMA (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident 
outside India) Regulations, 2000.
Treasury Management.indb 116 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 117
(d) Issue of Corporate or Personal Guarantee: The arrangement shall be subject to the following;
(1) A copy of Board Resolution for the issue of corporate guarantee for the company issuing 
such guarantee, specifying name of the officials authorized to execute such guarantees 
on behalf of the company or in individual capacity should be obtained.
(2) Specific requests from individuals to issue personal guarantee indicating details of ECB 
should be obtained.
(3) Such security shall be subject to provisions contained in Foreign Exchange Management 
(Guarantees) Regulations, 2000.
(4) ECB can be credit enhanced/guaranteed/insured by overseas party/parties only if it/they 
fulfil/s the criteria of recognized lender under extant ECB guidelines.
9.4.9 Issuance of Guarantee etc. by Indian Banks and Financial 
Institutions
Issuance of Guarantee, standby letter of credit, letter of undertaking or letter of comfort by Indian 
Banks, All India Financial Institutions and NBFCs relating to ECB is not permitted. Further, financial 
intermediaries shall not invest in FCCBs in any manner whatsoever.
9.4.10 Debt Equity Ratio
The borrowing entities will be governed by the guidelines on debt equity ratio issued, if any, by the 
sectoral or prudential regulator concerned.
9.4.11 Parking of ECB proceeds
ECB proceeds are permitted to be parked abroad as well as domestically in the manner given below.
(a) Parking of proceeds abroad: ECB proceeds meant only for foreign currency expenditure 
can be parked abroad pending utilization. Till utilization, these funds can be invested in the 
following liquid assets. (1) Deposits or Certificate of Deposits or other products offered by banks 
rated not less than AA (–) by Standard & Poor / Fitch IBCA or Aa3 by Moody’s, (2) Treasury 
Bills and other monetary instruments of maximum one year maturity having minimum rating 
as indicated above and (3) deposits with overseas branches/subsidiaries of Indian Banks.
(b) Parking of proceeds domestically: ECB proceeds meant for Rupee expenditure should be 
repatriated immediately for credit to their rupee accounts with AD Category I banks in India. 
ECB borrowers are also allowed to park ECB proceeds in term deposits with AD Category 
I banks in India for a maximum period of 12 months. These term deposits should be kept in 
unencumbered position.
9.4.12 Conversion of ECB into Equity
Conversion of ECB including those which are matured but unpaid, into equity is permitted subject 
to the following conditions:
Treasury Management.indb 117 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
118 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(1) The activity of the borrowing company is covered under the automatic route for Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) or approval from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB), 
wherever applicable, for foreign equity participation has been obtained as per extant FDI 
policy;
(2) The conversion, which should be with the lender’s consent and without any additional cost, 
will not result in breach of applicable sector cap on the foreign equity holding;
(3) Applicable pricing guidelines for shares are complied with;
(4) The reporting requirements prescribed by RBI are fulfilled;
(5) If the borrower concerned has availed of other credit facilities from the Indian banking system, 
including overseas branches/subsidiaries, the applicable prudential guidelines issued by the 
Department of Banking Regulation of RBI, including guidelines on restructuring are complied 
with; and
(6) Consent of other lenders, if any, to the same borrower is available or at least information 
regarding conversions is exchanged with other lenders of the borrower.
9.4.13 Reporting requirements
Borrowings under ECB are subject to reporting requirements in respect of the following:
(1) Loan Registration Number (LRN) – Any drawdown in respect of an ECB as well as payment of 
any fees/charges for raising an ECB should happen only after obtaining the LRN from RBI. To 
obtain the LRN, borrowers are required to submit duly certified Form 83, which also contains 
terms and conditions of the ECB, in duplicate, to the designated AD Category I bank, who in turn 
will forward one copy to The Director, Balance of Payments Statistics Division, Department of 
Statistics and Information Management (DSIM), RBI, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051. 
Copies of loan agreement for raising ECB are not required to be submitted to RBI.
(2) Changes in terms and conditions of ECB: Permitted changes in ECB parameters should be 
reported to the DSIM through revised Form 83 at the earliest, in any case not later than 7 
days from the changes effected. While submitting revised Form 83, the changes should be 
specifically mentioned in the communication.
(3) Reporting of actual transactions: The borrowers are required to report actual ECB transactions 
through ECB 2 return through AD Category I bank on a monthly basis so as to reach DSIM 
within seven working days from the close of the month to which it relates. Changes, if any, 
in ECB parameters should also be incorporated in ECB 2 return.
(4) Reporting on account of conversion of ECB into equity: In case of partial or full conversion 
of ECB into equity, the reporting to the RBI will be as under:
(a) For partial conversion, the converted portion is to be reported to the Regional Office 
concerned of the Foreign Exchange Department of RBI in Form FC-GPR prescribed for 
reporting FDI flows, while monthly reporting to DSIM in ECB 2 Return will be with 
suitable remarks “ECB partially converted to equity”.
(b) For full conversion, the entire portion is to be reported in Form FC-GPR, while reporting 
to DSIM in ECB 2 Return should be done with remarks “ECB fully converted to equity”. 
Subsequent filing of ECB 2 Return is not required.
(c) For conversion of equity in phases, reporting through ECB 2 Return will also be in phases.
Treasury Management.indb 118 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 119
9.4.14 Refinancing of ECB
Refinancing of existing ECB with fresh ECB is permitted provided the fresh ECB is raised at a 
lower all-in-cost and residual maturity is not reduced. Overseas branches/subsidiaries of Indian 
banks are permitted only to refinance ECBs of highly rated (AAA) corporates as well as Navratna 
and Maharatna PSUs, provided the outstanding maturity of the original borrowing is not reduced 
and all-in-cost of fresh ECB is lower than the existing ECB. Partial refinance of existing ECBs is 
also permitted subject to same conditions.
9.4.15 Powers delegated to Banks to deal with ECB cases
The designated AD Category I banks can approve the following requests from the borrowers for 
changes in respect of ECBs except for FCCBs/FCEBs:
(1) Changes/modifications in the drawdown/repayment schedule.
(2) Changes in the currency of borrowing.
(3) Change of the AD category I Bank.
(4) Changes in the name of the borrower company.
(5) Transfer of ECB.
(6) Change in the recognized lender.
(7) Change in name of lender.
(8) Prepayment of ECB.
(9) Cancellation of LRN.
(10) Change in the end use of ECB proceeds.
(11) Reduction in amount of ECB
(12) Change in all-in-cost of ECB
(13) Refinancing of existing ECB
(14) Extension of matured but unpaid ECB
9.4.16 Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCB)
The issuance of FCCBs was brought under ECB guidelines in August 2005. Issuance of FCCBs shall 
conform to the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) guidelines including sectoral cap. In addition to the 
requirement of (i) minimum maturity of five years, (ii) the Call and Put option, if any, shall not be 
exercisable before the expiry of five years, (iii) issuance without any warrants attached, (iv) the issue 
related expenses not exceeding 4% of the issue size and in case of private placement, not exceeding 
2 per cent of the issue size, etc as required in terms of provisions contained in Regulation 21 of the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any Foreign Security) Regulations, 2000 read with 
schedule I to the regulations. FCCBs are also subject to all the regulations which are applicable to ECBs.
9.4.17 Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds (FCEBs)
FCEBs can be issued only under the approval route and shall have minimum maturity of five years. The 
bonds are exchangeable into equity share of another company, to be called the “Offered Company”, 
Treasury Management.indb 119 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
120 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
in any manner, either wholly or partly or on the basis of any equity related warrants attached to debt 
instruments. Issuance of FCEBs shall conform to the provisions contained in Regulation 21 of the Foreign 
Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any Foreign Security) Regulations, 2000 read with schedule 
IV to the regulations which contain eligibilities in respect of the issuer, offered company, subscriber, 
permitted end uses etc. The all-in-cost of FCEBs should be within the ceiling specified for ECB by RBI.
9.5 GLOBAL DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (GDRS)
Global Depository Receipts, popularly known as GDRs, are internationally traded equity instruments. 
GDRs are issued by international depositories and denominated in US Dollars. They represent a fixed 
ratio of shares of a company registered in India and quoted on NSE/BSE. However, the physical 
possession of the underlying Indian shares is vested with a Custodian based in India, who acts as 
an agent for the Depository concerned. GDRs are negotiable certificates and they are freely traded 
in the overseas financial markets including Europe and USA.
In the run-up to a GDR issue, the Company that seeks to issue GDRs has to pass a resolution in its 
Board to that effect. An application is then made out to Ministry of Finance (MOF). While according 
the approval, MOF accords approval for a specified price range only as the finalisation of the pricing 
aspect is concluded just before the issue opens, having regard to the prevailing market conditions 
and the obtaining market sentiments. Normally, arrangements are made for underwriting the issue 
and road shows are conducted by the lead managers for marketing purposes. Actually, the shares are 
issued by the company concerned to the depository only and the shares are registered in the books 
of the company in the name of the depository only. Thereafter, the depository issues the GDRs to 
the ultimate investors which are freely tradable in major financial markets and also on OTC basis.
The dividend payout is done by the company in rupees to the depository. The depository makes its 
own arrangements to make the dividend payment to the GDR holders. GDR once issued may be 
cancelled but only after 45 days cooling period.
The major advantages and salient features of GDR are as follows: For the issuing company, it does 
not entail any foreign exchange risk as the transaction is reflected in its books only on rupee terms.
Issue of GDR enhances the corporate image of the company in the international financial circles as 
the company becomes more visible. GDR issues are a step in the direction of becoming an established 
global player.
With a view to initially attract the potential investors, the pricing of the GDRs is usually done at a 
discount to the domestic prices. The discount to domestic prices is also on account of the fact that 
rupee has been constantly depreciating against the US dollar over a period of time. However, on 
account of risk-reward perceptions on the Indian papers, FIls have been showing an increased appetite 
for Indian scrips. This particular phenomenon has resulted in certain GDR issues being quoted at a 
premium at the time of issue stage itself.
GDRs are manifestation of the interest in Indian scrips by overseas investor community. The overseas 
investors are not normally concerned with the day-to-day running of the company and not interested 
in acquiring management stake. They are more interested in securing best returns on their investments 
by way of capital appreciation at the time of redemption.
Treasury Management.indb 120 6/19/2018 6:24:02 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 121
Since GDR holders do not appear in the books of the company as equity-holders, they are not subject 
to the regulatory control span of authorities like SEBI (Security Exchange Board of India), etc., 
unlike FIIs who make direct investment into Indian papers and thus bear the currency fluctuation 
risk as well.
Despite periodic changes, be it economic or political, India continues to remain a relatively safe 
country in attracting direct/indirect investments.
The liquidity of GDRs is as good as the liquidity of the domestic shares of the company concerned. 
Generally, the market has witnessed linear relationship in the movements of GDR and domestic 
share prices for a given company. Of course, any abnormal behavior between the two markets will 
give rise to arbitrage opportunities.
Even as the GDR holders remain detached on a legal footing vis-á-vis the Company, they would 
nevertheless be entitled to all the attendant economic/monetary benefits. Apart from the above, while 
the depository concerned would remain the share-holder in the books of the Company, the depository 
is indirectly likely to be guided by the interests of the GDR holders as they hold large chunk of the 
capital indirectly subject to the agreements thereof and the disclosure clauses contained at the time 
of offer. Some of the important guidelines governing GDR issues are summarised as under:
(i) An Indian corporate can raise foreign currency resources abroad through the issue of American 
Depository Receipts (ADRs) or Global Depository Receipts (GDRs). Regulation 4 of Schedule I 
of FEMA Notification no. 20 allows an Indian company to issue its Rupee denominated shares 
to a person resident outside India being a depository for the purpose of issuing Global 
Depository Receipts (GDRs) and/or American Depository Receipts (ADRs), subject to the 
conditions that: the ADRs/GDRs are issued in accordance with the Scheme for issue of Foreign 
Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depository Receipt Mechanism) 
Scheme, 1993 and guidelines issued by the Central Government there under from time to time. 
This scheme has been repealed, except to the extent relating to foreign currency convertible 
bonds, with the notification of a new scheme called “Depository Receipts Scheme, 2014” for 
investments under ADR/GDR by the Central Government with effect from December 15, 2014.
The salient features of the new scheme are:
(a) The securities in which a person resident outside India is allowed to invest under Schedules 1, 
2, 2A, 3, 5 and 8 of Notification No FEMA 20/2000-RB dated 3rd May 2000 shall be eligible 
securities for issue of Depository Receipts in terms of DR Scheme 2014.
(b) A person will be eligible to issue or transfer eligible securities to a foreign depository for the 
purpose of issuance of depository receipts as provided in DR Scheme 2014.
(c) The aggregate of eligible securities which may be issued or transferred to foreign depositories, 
along with the eligible securities already held by persons resident outside India, shall not exceed 
the limit on foreign holding of such eligible securities under the extant FEMA regulations, as 
amended from time to time.
(d) The eligible securities shall not be issued to a foreign depository for the purpose of issuing 
depository receipts at a price less than the price applicable to a corresponding mode of issue 
of such securities to domestic investors under FEMA, 1999.
Treasury Management.indb 121 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
122 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(e) It is to be noted that if the issuance of the depository receipts adds to the capital of a 
company, the issue of shares and utilization of the proceeds shall have to comply with 
the relevant conditions laid down in the Regulations framed and Directions issued under 
FEMA, 1999.
(f) The domestic custodian shall report the issue/transfer of sponsored/unsponsored depository 
receipts as per DR Scheme 2014 in Form DRR as given in Annex within 30 days of close of 
the issue/programme. These instruments are issued by a Depository abroad and listed in the 
overseas stock exchanges like NASDAQ. The proceeds so raised have to be kept abroad till 
actually required in India. There are no end use restrictions except for a ban on deployment/
investment of these funds in real estate and stock markets. There is no monetary limit up 
to which an Indian company can raise ADRs/GDRs. However, the Indian company has to 
be otherwise eligible to raise foreign equity under the extant FDI policy and the foreign 
shareholding after the issue should be in compliance with FDI policy.
(ii) The ADR/GDR can be issued on the basis of the ratio worked out by the Indian company in 
consultation with the Lead Manager of the issue. The Indian company will issue its rupee 
denominated shares in the name of the Overseas Depository and will keep in the custody of 
the domestic Custodian in India. On the basis of the ratio worked out and the rupee shares 
kept with the domestic Custodian, the Depository will issue ADRs/GDRs abroad.
(iii) A limited Two-way Fungibility scheme has been put in place by the Government of India for 
ADRs/GDRs. Under this scheme, a stock broker in India, registered with SEBI, can purchase 
the shares from the market for conversion into ADRs/GDR. Re-issuance of ADRs/GDR would 
be permitted to the extent of ADRs/GDRs which have been redeemed into underlying shares 
and sold in the domestic market.
(iv) An Indian company can also sponsor an issue of ADR/GDR: Under this mechanism, the 
company offers its resident shareholders a choice to submit their shares back to the company 
so that on the basis of such shares, ADRs/GDRs can be issued abroad. The proceeds of the 
ADR/GDR issue are remitted back to India and distributed among the resident investors 
who had offered their rupee denominated shares for conversion. These proceeds can be kept 
in Resident Foreign Currency (Domestic) accounts in India by the shareholders who have 
tendered such shares for conversion into ADR/GDR.
(v) The ADR/GDR/FCCB proceeds may be utilised in the first stage acquisition of shares in the 
disinvestment process and also in the mandatory second stage offer to the public in view of 
their strategic importance.
 ADRs have been permitted to allow Indian companies to prepay the existing FCCB subject 
to certain conditions.
9.6 AMERICAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (ADRS)
American Depository Receipts, more popularly known as ADRs, are US Dollar denominated equity 
instruments widely traded in US financial markets. While GDRs are technically tradable world over, 
in reality, it is seen mostly traded only on the Luxembourg Bourse and thus catering to the European 
markets only. With GDRs only, it is becoming difficult for the corporates to penetrate the US markets. 
Further, US markets are too big and specialized to be ignored. However, the ADR route has a set of 
procedural formalities to be undertaken.
Treasury Management.indb 122 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 123
Issuance of ADRs requires strict compliance with the guidelines issued by USD Security Exchange 
Regulation Commission, the counterpart of SEBI in India. Trading on ADRs could be done only by 
qualified institutional buyers, known as QIBs, as required under Section 144 A of Security Exchange 
Regulation Commission. The above requirement, in effect, would keep the common investor away 
from the ambit of ADR, although it would be possible if the listing requirements in the individual 
stock exchanges in US and strict adherence to the exacting standards of US GAAP (Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles), which are regarded as the most demanding level of disclosures 
and transparencies.
The main advantage of adopting the ADR rules is the visible image of the company that could be 
created in the US financial markets. Entry into US markets could be helpful in setting up mutually 
rewarding business relationships by way of Joint Ventures/Wholly Owned Subsidiaries (JVs/WOS).
9.7 INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued a circular1 (the RBI Circular), seeking to amend the 
Indian exchange control regulations, to (1) enable foreign companies to issue Indian Depository 
Receipts (IDRs) in India, and (2) permit Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs), their sub-accounts, 
and Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) to invest in IDRs.
9.7.1 Brief Regulatory Background
In principle, IDRs are the Indian equivalent of Global Depository Receipts (GDRs)/American 
Depository Shares (ADS) issued by Indian companies overseas. The issuance of IDRs was first 
contemplated in 2000 when changes were brought about in the Companies Act, 1956, thereby allowing 
foreign companies to issue IDRs in India, subject to complying with special rules to be issued by the 
Indian Government in this regard. These rules, called the Companies (Issue of IDR) Rules, 2004 (IDR 
Rules), were notified by the Government in February 2004. In April 2006, SEBI amended the SEBI 
(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 (DIP Guidelines) to enable foreign companies 
to raise funds through IDR issuances in the Indian public markets and also issued its model listing 
agreement for such issues. Some recognized stock exchanges in India have incorporated SEBI’s model 
listing agreement in the listing agreements they propose to execute with the foreign issuer companies. 
Subsequently, in January 2009, the Indian Government brought about certain amendments to the IDR 
Rules to make it operationally easier for foreign companies to issue IDRs in India.
The RBI has, vide its circular, sought to amend the Indian exchange control regulations to enable 
foreign companies issue IDRs in India and permit FIIs/sub-accounts and NRIs to invest in them.
9.7.2 Brief Overview of the Regulations Governing IDRs
A summary of the current regulatory framework governing the issuance of IDRs is provided below:
1. Only a foreign company which meets the following eligibility criteria is permitted to issue 
IDRs in India:
Treasury Management.indb 123 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
124 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Its pre-issue paid-up capital and free reserves are at least US$ 50 million and it has minimum 
average market capitalization during the last three years in its parent country of at least 
USD 100 million.
• It has a continuous trading record or history on a stock exchange in the parent country for 
at least three immediately preceding years.
• It has a track record of distributable profits for at least three out of immediately preceding 
five years.
• It is listed in its home country; it has not been prohibited from issuing securities by any 
regulatory body, and it has a good track record with respect to compliance with securities 
market regulations
• The size of an IDR issue shall not be less than `50 crores.
2. The issuer company shall procure the prior approval of SEBI to raise funds through IDRs. It 
shall also obtain the necessary approvals or exemptions from its appropriate home regulators 
under the relevant laws relating to issue of capital, where required.
3. The issuer company is required to appoint an overseas custodian bank, a domestic depository 
and a merchant banker for the purpose of the IDR issue. It may appoint underwriters to 
underwrite the IDR issue. It is required to file a due diligence report as well as a prospectus 
with the Registrar of Companies and SEBI.
4. The IDRs are required to be listed on a recognised stock exchange in India having nation-wide 
trading terminals.
5. The IDRs issued in any financial year cannot exceed 15 percent of the paid-up capital 
and free reserves of the issuer company, and the size of the IDR issue shall not be less than 
`500 million (i.e., approximately US$ 7.8 million).
6. In every IDR issue at least 50 percent of the issue shall be subscribed by Qualified Institutional 
Buyers (QIBs) as defined by SEBI in its DIP Guidelines. The balance 50 percent of the issue 
shall be available for subscription by non-institutional investors and retail individual investors, 
including employees. The minimum application amount in an IDR issue shall be `20,000 
(i.e., approximately US$ 313).
9.8 THE RBI CIRCULAR
The RBI Master Direction – Foreign Investment in India as updated till 12th January, 2018 provides 
the following:
9.8.1 Issue of IDRs
1. Companies incorporated outside India may issue IDRs through a Domestic Depository, to a 
person resident in India and a person resident outside India;
2. The issue of IDRs should comply with the Companies (Registration of Foreign Companies) 
Rules, 2014 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
3. Any issue of IDRs by financial/banking companies having presence in India, either through 
a branch or subsidiary, shall require prior approval of the sectoral regulator(s);
Treasury Management.indb 124 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 125
4. IDRs shall be denominated in Indian Rupees only;
5. The proceeds of the issue of IDRs shall be immediately repatriated outside India by the 
companies issuing such IDRs.
9.8.2 Purchase/sale of IDRs
1. An FPI or an NRI or an OCI may purchase, hold or sell IDRs,
2. NRIs or OCIs may invest in the IDRs out of funds held in their NRE/FCNR(B) account, 
maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 
2016,
3. There would be an overall cap of USD 5 billion for raising of capital by issuance of IDRs by 
eligible foreign companies in Indian markets. This limit would be monitored by SEBI.
9.8.3 Transfer, redemption and two way fungibility of IDRs
1. Redemption/conversion of IDRs into underlying equity shares of the issuing company shall 
comply with the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any Foreign Security) 
Regulations, 2004.
2. IDRs shall not be redeemable into underlying equity shares before the expiry of one year 
from the date of issue.
3. Limited two way fungibility of IDRs is permissible.
4. The guidelines to be followed for 3(i), 3(ii) and 3(iii) above are as follows:
(a) Listed Indian companies may either sell or continue to hold the underlying shares subject 
to compliance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any Foreign 
Security) Regulations, 2004.
(b) Indian Mutual Funds, registered with SEBI may either sell or continue to hold the 
underlying shares subject to compliance with the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Transfer or Issue of any Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004.
(c) Other persons resident in India including resident individuals are allowed to hold the 
underlying shares only for the purpose of sale within a period of 30 days from the date 
of conversion of the IDRs into underlying shares.
5. The FEMA provisions shall not apply to the holding of the underlying shares, on redemption 
of IDRs by the FPIs.
9.9. MASALA BONDS
Masala Bonds represent Indian Rupee denominated debt issued overseas. The currency risk is borne 
by the overseas investor.
Banks are permitted to issue Rupee Denominated Debt overseas in the form of
(1) Perpetual Debt Instruments (PDI) qualifying as Additional Tier 1 equity or Tier 2 debt.
(2) Long Term Bonds for financing infrastructure as well as affordable housing sectors.
Treasury Management.indb 125 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
126 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
HDFC Ltd is the first Indian entity to issue masala bonds overseas. British Columbia (a province in 
Canada) issued sub five year debt and invested in HDFC Ltd’s masala bonds.
Let Us Sum Up
RBI permitted banks to invest in shares since 1994. Preference shareholders assume only limited 
risk. In India only redeemable preference shares be issued where the capital is repaid to the 
shareholders after a fixed period. There are two routes Automatic route and Approval route for 
availing External Commercial Borrowings. RBI determines the all-in cost ceilings for ECBs. ADRs 
are US denominated equity instruments widely traded in US financial markets, while GDRs are 
predominantly traded in Europe. In principle, IDRs are the Indian equivalent of GDRs issued by 
Indian companies overseas.
Keywords
Equity shares, preference shares, External Commercial Borrowings, all-in cost, GDR, ADR, IDR, 
Masala Bonds
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. When do voting rights accrue to the holder in the case of preference shares?
(a) When dividend is in arrears for two years
(b) No voting rights for preference shareholders
(c) When dividend exceeds 25% of net profit
(d) When dividend remains unpaid for one year
2. What is the significance of Track I under which ECBs are allowed to be raised?
(a) Long term foreign currency denominated ECBs with minimum average maturity of 
10 years can be raised.
(b) Medium term foreign currency denominated ECBs with minimum average maturity of 
3/5 years can be raised.
(c) Indian Rupee denominated ECBs with minimum average maturity of 3/5 years can be 
raised.
(d) ECBs in the form of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds can be raised under automatic 
route.
3. What is the criterion for a foreign company to be able to issue Indian Depository Receipts?
(a) Its pre-issue paid-up capital and reserves are at least US$100 million.
(b) Its average market capitalization during the last two years should be at least US$ 100 
million.
(c) Its average market capitalization during the last three years in its parent country should 
be at least US$100 million.
(d) Its pre-issue reserves should not be less than US$50 million.
Treasury Management.indb 126 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
OTHER CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS 127
4. In the case of Masala Bonds, who bears the exchange risk?
(a) Issuer
(b) Commercial Bank
(c) Regulator
(d) Investor
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 127 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
 FOREIGN EXCHANGE
(FX) MARKETS
STRUCTURE
10.0 Objective
10.1 Introduction
10.2 Definitions and Exchange Rate Quotations
10.3 Factors Influencing Exchange Rates
10.4 Role of Banks in the Indian FX Market
10.5 Relationship with Money Market Operations
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
10
Treasury Management.indb 128 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (FX) MARKETS 129
10.0 OBJECTIVE
This section deals with Exchange rate mechanism, various types of quotations, factors influencing 
exchange rates and the relationship with money markets.
10.1 INTRODUCTION
Foreign Exchange Markets are dynamic round the clock markets. Owing to the different time zones 
in which the participating countries are located, the quotes are continuously available at all times. 
For instance, when Indian FX markets commence business, the Far-Eastern markets like Australia, 
Japan, HongKong and, Singapore would be in their post-lunch session. By the time, it is post-lunch 
session for Indian FX markets; the European markets commence their operations. When European 
markets are closing, US markets open up. Thus, the market quotes are available throughout.
The BIS Triennial Central Bank Survey is the most comprehensive source of information on the 
size and structure of global foreign exchange (FX) and over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives markets. 
The Triennial Survey aims to increase the transparency of OTC markets and to help central banks, 
other authorities and market participants monitor developments in global financial markets. It also 
helps to inform discussions on reforms to OTC markets.
FX market activity has been surveyed every three years since 1986, and OTC interest rate derivatives 
market activity since 1995. The Triennial Survey is coordinated by the Bank for International 
Settlements(BIS) under the auspices of the Markets Committee (for the FX part) and the Committee 
on the Global Financial System (for the interest rate derivatives part). It is supported through the Data 
Gaps Initiative endorsed by the G20. The latest survey of turnover took place in April 2016. Central 
banks and other authorities in 52 jurisdictions participated in the 2016 survey. They collected data 
from close to 1,300 banks and other dealers in their jurisdictions and reported national aggregates 
to the BIS, which then calculated global aggregates. Turnover data are reported by the sales desks 
of reporting dealers, regardless of where a trade is booked, and are reported on an unconsolidated 
basis, i.e. including trades between related entities that are part of the same group.
Highlights
Highlights from the 2016 Triennial Survey of turnover in OTC foreign exchange markets:
1. Trading in foreign exchange markets averaged $5.1 trillion per day in April 2016. This is down 
from $5.4 trillion in April 2013, a month which had seen heightened activity in Japanese yen 
against the background of monetary policy developments at that time.
2. For the first time since 2001, spot turnover declined. Spot transactions fell to $1.7 trillion per 
day in April 2016 from $2.0 trillion in 2013. In contrast, the turnover of FX swaps rose further, 
reaching $2.4 trillion per day in April 2016. This rise was driven in large part by increased 
trading of FX swaps involving yen.
3. The US dollar remained the dominant vehicle currency, being on one side of 88% of all 
trades in April 2016. The euro, yen and Australian dollar all lost market share. In contrast, 
many emerging market currencies increased their share. The renminbi doubled its share, to 
4%, to become the world’s eighth most actively traded currency and the most actively traded 
Treasury Management.indb 129 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
130 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
emerging market currency, overtaking the Mexican peso. The rise in the share of renminbi 
was primarily due to the increase in trading against the US dollar. In April 2016, as much as 
95% of renminbi trading volume was against the US dollar.
4. The share of trading between reporting dealers grew over the three-year period, accounting for 
42% of turnover in April 2016, compared with 39% in April 2013. Banks other than reporting 
dealers accounted for a further 22% of turnover. Institutional investors were the third largest 
group of counterparties in FX markets, at 16%.
5. In April 2016, sales desks in five countries – the United Kingdom, the United States, Singapore, 
Hong Kong SAR and Japan – intermediated 77% of foreign exchange trading, up from 75% 
in April 2013 and 71% in April 2010.
The world currency markets are marked by the presence of currencies like US Dollar (USD), Great 
British Pound (GBP), Euro (EUR), Swiss Franc (CHF), Japanese Yen (JPY), etc, besides the other 
continental and exotic currencies. The share of Indian Rupee trades in the global market is about 1.1%, 
and India ranks 17th in FX turnover with the average daily turnover touching USD 53 billion. The 
tradability of individual currencies is subject to the local exchange control regulations. Currencies 
of the countries that have full capital account convertibility are deemed to be freely tradable or they 
are said to float freely in FX markets. Examples of currencies which follow a free float are USD, 
EUR, CHF, JPY, Canadian Dollar (CAD), Australian Dollar (AUD), etc. There are several countries 
whose economies are not fully open. These economies are open partially on the capital account, and 
fully or partially on the current account. India is fully convertible on the current account, but only 
partially convertible on the capital account. So while the Indian Rupee (INR) floats freely, due to the 
partial convertibility, its exchange rates can be managed more effectively than a fully convertible 
currency. There are currencies which follow a managed float, i.e., the exchange rate of the currency 
is managed in a band by the relevant authority, usually the central bank of that country. Also, there 
are currencies which are pegged to another currency, i.e. the exchange rate of that currency is fixed to 
another currency, usually the USD. The Chinese Yuan (CNY or Renminbi) and the Malaysian Ringgit 
(MYR) were, till recently pegged to the USD. However the peg stands removed now and they have 
been allowed to float within a restricted band against other currencies. It must be mentioned that even 
for currencies which follow a free float regime, central banks may still intervene in the market to try 
and adjust the exchange rate of a particular currency if they think it is required to do so.
10.2 DEFINITIONS AND EXCHANGE RATE QUOTATIONS
A few definitions in respect of the oft-repeated terms in FX markets are furnished below:
Exchange Rate refers to the price of one currency against another currency.
Spot transaction refers to the transaction wherein the settlement takes place two working days after 
the date of transaction. This is the standard basis on which majority of FX transactions are concluded.
When the transaction and the settlement take place on the same day of the date of transaction, then 
such transaction is said to have taken place on Cash or Today value basis.
TOM transaction refers to the transaction wherein the settlement takes place one working day after 
the date of transaction. The term TOM stands for Value Tomorrow.
Treasury Management.indb 130 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (FX) MARKETS 131
Any transaction in respect of which the settlement takes place beyond the spot date is a Forward 
transaction.
An outright transaction is one in which a particular currency is bought against another currency that 
is being sold for a given value date at a mutually agreed exchange rate.
Swap transaction refers to the purchase and sale of a given pair of currencies against each other for 
different maturity/value dates. In effect, it is a combination of two outright deals of varying maturity 
dates, one being a sale leg and the other a purchase leg, or vice versa.
Cross rate is the process of arriving at a value of a given currency through the medium of two different 
pairs of currencies, in which there is a common currency for both the pairs.
For instance, in order to arrive at EUR/INR price, market uses EUR/USD price and USD/INR price.
Direct quotations refer to the quoting of a price wherein, a given unit of Foreign Currency is kept 
constant and the home currency is expressed as a variable. Direct quotations are regarded as easy to 
understand, user-friendly, and transparent. Indirect quotations refer to the quoting of a price wherein, 
the home currency is kept constant for a given unit, and the foreign currency is expressed as variable.
In a direct quote USD/INR 65.10/15, USD is termed the BASE currency and INR is termed the 
QUOTING currency.
Since FX is akin to a commodity, there would be invariably a price differential between the buying 
and selling price which is called the bid/offer spread.
When the forward price of a currency is higher than the spot price of that currency, the currency is 
said to be at a premium.
When the forward price of a currency is lower than the spot price of that currency, the currency is 
said to be at a discount.
Proprietary trading refers to the trading in FX markets on the bank’s own account.
Merchant trading refers to the entering of a particular transaction in the books of the bank on behalf 
of a client. The banks normally undertake immediate cover operations in respect of such deals, so 
that they are insulated from any risks arising out of adverse exchange rate movements against the 
quotes already offered to the client.
10.3 FACTORS INFLUENCING EXCHANGE RATES
The movements of exchange rates are indeed fascinating. The reasons for the movements are varied. 
A few causes are listed here below:
(i) Demand and Supply for the individual currency.
(ii) Relative strengths of the economies for a given pair of currencies.
(iii) Trade-surplus/deficit vis-á-vis the currencies of the countries concerned.
(iv) A host of economic factors like Gross National Product, Fiscal Deficit, Balance of Payments 
Position, Industrial Production data, Employment data, etc.
(v) Monetary Policies of the Government/Central Bank Political and Security climate.
Treasury Management.indb 131 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
132 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(vi) Inflation rate differentials,
(vii) Interest rate differentials.
It may be added, that the interest rate differentials, which are in turn a function of the inflation 
differentials, would be more relevant in case of forward rate determinations/movements. The factors 
that contribute to the exchange rate movements are quite varied and wide. The demand and supply 
factors are equally important in determining the exchange rates.
The news flashes that periodically tick in will impact the exchange rate movements. Whether a 
particular news item would cause any movement in the exchange rate typically, depends upon the 
way in which the same is perceived by the market forces. Normally, by the time the news is out, it is 
acted upon and absorbed by the market instantaneously. Anticipated news, by the time it is formally 
announced, may have no impact in the market as the same would have been already factored into the 
exchange rate movement. The movement, at best, could be restricted to the extent of variance between 
the anticipated news and the actual news. The market sentiments play a definite role in causing the 
upward/downward movement of exchange rates in the short run, although the fundamentals of the 
economy play a major role in the medium to long term. Market sentiments have their due place in 
determination of exchange rate in the short run even though they may not be at times adequately 
backed by common logic/reasoning, and it may be such that the views could be, in reality, contrary 
to the perceptions based on economic fundamentals.
10.4 ROLE OF BANKS IN THE INDIAN FX MARKET
The role of banks in the Indian FX market comes into focus, on account of the fact that customers cannot 
deal in foreign exchange markets on their own without the banking medium. Customers need to buy or 
sell their foreign currency arising out of their export, import, and remittance transactions. Their trade 
finance and personal remittances dealings involve inflow or outflow of foreign exchange which, in turn, 
are governed by the extant foreign exchange regulations. Banks, even as they are catering to the FX 
requirements of the clients, also ensure that the transactions are well within the ambit of the provisions of 
the Exchange Control Regulations currently in force which is presently Foreign Exchange Management 
Act 1999. Another demanding segment is the personal segment comprising Non-Resident Indians (NRIs).
All foreign exchange transactions need to comply with the provisions of Foreign Exchange 
Management Act (FEMA), 1999. The regulatory authority for the Indian FX market is the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI). The RBI issues guidelines/regulations/instructions from time to time which 
govern the functioning of the market.
Only Authorised Dealers (ADs) licensed by the RBI can participate directly in the FX market. 
These are usually Scheduled Commercial Banks. In addition there are institutions that have been 
granted a limited/restrictive AD license which permits them to undertake certain FX activities. A 
set of participants who are the Full Fledged Money Changers (FFMCs) have been granted license 
to undertake certain currency transactions with the general public. However the FFMCs also need 
to cover their FX positions with the ADs.
Hitherto, Commercial Banks have been categorized as Authorised Dealers – Category 1. They can 
undertake all capital and current account foreign exchange transactions as per FEMA.
Treasury Management.indb 132 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (FX) MARKETS 133
Authorised Money Changers (Restricted) category cannot sell Foreign Currency, but buy them from 
public.
Full Fledged Money Changers category can do both, buying and selling of Foreign Currency.
Off Shore Banking Units (OBUs) form the third category. These three together were termed as 
Authorised Persons (AP).
AD Category II can carry out specified non trade related current account transactions and any other 
activity as decided by RBI. Cooperative Banks, RRBs, Full Fledged Money Changers (FFMC) fall 
into Category II.
AD Category-I Banks and FFMCs can appoint franchisees, who can carry out Restricted Money 
Changing – they can only buy foreign currency, and the foreign currency purchased by franchisee 
must be surrendered to franchisor within 7 days.
Customers approach ADs to get the best value for their FX requirements. Usually, the AD quoting 
the best FX rate will get the deal from the customer. Factors like customer relationship, execution 
capability, and post trade service quality will also have a bearing on which AD gets the deal. To 
offer a competitive quote to a customer, an AD has to have the ability to get the best quotes from the 
market. This in turn would depend on how active that AD is in the inter-bank FX market.
An exporter would sell foreign currency to an AD, while an importer would purchase foreign 
currency. Apart from trade transactions there are remittances which could be inward remittances, 
involving the sale of foreign currency to an AD, and outward remittances involving purchase 
of foreign currency. The customer’s requirements for purchase or sale of foreign currency 
also arise from capital account transactions such as Foreign Currency Borrowings or their 
repayment, issue of ADRs/GDRs, acquisition of domestic companies by an overseas entity or 
vice-versa, etc.
Having concluded an FX transaction with the customer, the AD may have an overbought or oversold 
position in a foreign currency vis-à-vis INR. The exchange rate quoted to the customer would usually 
be at a spread to the prevailing inter-bank exchange rate. To realize this spread, the AD would look 
to cover its position in the inter-bank market. Depending on the actual rate at which the AD manages 
to square its position in the market, the spread earned would be higher, lower or same as the earlier 
envisaged spread.
Apart from merchant transactions, ADs also take proprietary positions, i.e., positions on their own 
account. These positions can be taken by the AD on the back of a customer transaction or could be 
initiated in the inter-bank market on a stand-alone basis. These positions are subject to daylight and 
overnight limits. The net overnight position which is termed as the Net Overnight Open Position 
Limit (NOOPL) is approved by the RBI for each AD after the latter’s Board of Directors have 
approved the same.
Trading activities act like a backbone in providing depth to the markets. Unless two-way prices 
are offered on an on-going basis, market making will be rendered difficult. Shallow markets do not 
contribute anything positive, but just impart dullness to FX markets. Even in the case of merchant 
cover operations, as mentioned earlier, unless the FX markets are active, customers may not get the 
best of exchange rates. Active trading desks cause the narrowing of buy-sell differential margins 
Treasury Management.indb 133 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
134 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
driven by high volume-low spread concept. Thus ADs acting as market makers have an important 
role to play in the FX market.
Banks, as foreign exchange Authorised Dealers, provide support to the international trade, comprising 
of exports and imports and remittances. Banks maintain foreign currency positions in different 
convertible currencies. The banks offer variety of foreign exchange rates like spot, forwards, swaps, 
cross currency rates, etc., which facilitates the clients in conducting their transactions in various 
foreign currencies from time to time. Through swaps and forward contracts, banks facilitate exchange 
risk management of their clients. Foreign exchange market is not only an organized market but also 
a rigidly controlled one, and banks are the most important players in this market.
10.5 RELATIONSHIP WITH MONEY MARKET OPERATIONS
Usually in the case of a fully convertible currency, the forward rates against any other currency 
reflect the interest rate differential of the two currencies. However, as stated earlier the INR is not 
fully convertible on the capital account. This results in arbitrage opportunities between the interest 
rates in the domestic market, and that implied by the forward premiums. The arbitrage opportunities 
will be clear from the following examples:
Example 1
USD/INR Spot: 65.10, Spot Date: 12/12/2017
USD/INR March Forward Premium: INR 0.20 March End: 31/03/ 2018
USD Deposit Rate till 31/03/2018: 3.50%
INR Inter-bank term money till 31/03/2018: 4.35%
Implied Interest Rate from the USD/INR forward curve:
(0.20/65.10) × (365/109) = 1.03%
An AD can borrow INR at 4.35% till 31/03/2018. With this INR the AD can do a Buy/Sell swap in 
the FX market wherein it buys USD Spot and sell its forward for 31/03/2018. The AD then places 
the USD so bought in the Spot market with an overseas bank till 31/ 03/2018, earning an interest 
rate of 3.50%.
The effective return to the AD in USD is 3.50% + 1.03% = 4.53%.
Thus the AD makes a spread of 0.18% (4.53% – 4.35%) on its INR borrowing. ADs can do this as 
long as they operate within its approved Aggregate Gap Limit (AGL).
Example 2
USD/INR Spot: 64.95, Spot Date:12/12/2017
USD/INR November Forward Premium: INR 0.40 November End: 30/11/2018
Treasury Management.indb 134 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (FX) MARKETS 135
USD LIBOR Rate till 30/11/2018: 3.75%
INR Inter-bank term money till 30/11/2018: 5.75%
Implied Interest Rate from the USD/INR forward curve:
(0.40/64.95) × (365/353) = 0.64%
Assume that the AD can borrow USD at LIBOR + 25 bp till 30/11/ 2018. The AD will swap the 
borrowed USD into INR by doing a Sell/Buy Swap in the FX market wherein it sells USD against 
INR on Spot Basis, and buys USD against INR for 30/11/2018. The AD then invests the INR so 
raised in an inter-bank term deposit till 30/ 11/2018 at 5.75% p.a.
The effective cost of USD for the AD = (3.75% + 0.25%) + 0.64% = 4.64%. Thus, the AD makes 
a spread of 1.11% (5.75% – 4.64%) on its USD borrowing. ADs are allowed to borrow in Foreign 
Currency up to 25% of their unimpaired TIER I Capital, and use these borrowings to fund their INR 
balance sheet. Thus, ADs can raise relatively cheaper funds up to this limit in the case of market 
conditions specified in this example.
It, thus, makes sense for the FX Treasury and the Domestic Money Market Treasury of Banks 
to work in co-ordination with each other, in order to capitalize on such market opportunities 
with the overall corporate objective in mind. It should be borne in mind that in the absence of a 
clear focus, the individual treasuries may regard each of them as separate profit centres in their 
own right, and thereby, miss out the arbitrage opportunities or start working at cross-purposes. 
This is one of the reasons why most banks have either set up or are in the process of setting up 
integrated Treasuries.
The foreign exchange traders keep looking for arbitrage opportunities in the market to make 
quick money. In this context, it will be useful to understand the arbitrage mechanism in greater 
detail.
Forex arbitrage is defined as “the simultaneous purchase and sale of the same, or essentially similar, 
security in two different markets for advantageously different prices,” according to the concept 
formalized by economists Sharpe and Alexander in the 1990s.
“RISK-FREE Or Locational Arbitrage”
According to economic theory, trading on financial markets is bound by the Efficient Markets 
Hypothesis, a concept developed by economist Eugene Fama and others from the 1960s onward. 
It suggests that markets (or more importantly all the active investors and participants in them) will 
process all available information about asset values and prices efficiently and quickly in such a way 
that there will be little, if any, room for price discrepancies across markets, and that prices will move 
quickly toward equilibrium levels.
Because of this natural tendency for prices to move toward equilibrium levels across markets at all 
times, traders may find it difficult to identify price discrepancies across markets that allow them to 
buy assets at “bargain rates.” Or, in the words of renowned economist Milton Friedman, there’s no 
such thing as a “free lunch.”
Treasury Management.indb 135 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
136 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Negative Spread: A Free Lunch?
While the efficient markets theory indeed works, in practice traders have found that markets have 
not shown themselves to be 100% efficient at all times due to asymmetric information between 
buyers and sellers.
One such occasion of market inefficiency is when one seller’s ask price is lower than another buyer’s 
bid price, also known as a “negative spread.” For instance, this may happen when one bank quotes a 
particular price for a currency while another bank is referencing a different price. When a situation 
like this arises, an arbitrageur can make a quick profit by simultaneously executing a purchase from 
the seller and a sale to the buyer. In essence, the trader begins the trade in a situation of profit, rather 
than having to wait for a favorable evolution of market trends.
However, while risk-free trading may sound like a great deal in theory, once again, in practice, traders 
should be aware that losses can occur. The most common risk identified by traders in arbitrage trading 
is “execution risk.” This is the risk that price slippage or requotes can occur, making the trade less 
profitable or turning it into a loss.
A Fast-Moving Market
With the rise of electronic trading platforms since the 1970s and the more recent growth of 
“high-frequency trading” using algorithms and dedicated computer networks to execute trades, 
some opportunities for so-called “risk-free” arbitrage have diminished. At the least, traders 
now must be much more agile and quick on the trigger finger to execute such trades. Whereas 
several years ago arbitrage trade opportunities may have lingered for several seconds, traders 
now report they may last for only a second or so before prices converge toward equilibrium 
levels. 
However, market researchers have found that negative spread situations still do arise in particular 
circumstances. These tend to occur more often in periods of market volatility. They can also arise because 
of price quote errors, failure to update old quotes (stale quotes) in the trading system or situations where 
institutional market participants are seeking to cover their clients’ outstanding positions.
Triangular Arbitrage
A variation on the negative spread strategy that may offer chances for gains is triangular arbitrage. 
Triangular arbitrage involves the trade of three (or more) different currencies, thus increasing the 
likelihood that market inefficiencies will present opportunities for profits. In this strategy, traders will 
look for situations where a specific currency is overvalued relative to one currency but undervalued 
relative to the other.
An example of triangular arbitrage would be to trade in three currency pairs, such as EUR/USD, 
USD/JPY and EUR/JPY. If in this case the euro is undervalued in relation to the yen, and overvalued 
in relation to the dollar, the trader can simultaneously use dollars to buy yen and use yen to buy 
euros, to subsequently convert the euros back into dollars at a profit.
Treasury Management.indb 136 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (FX) MARKETS 137
Cross-currency arbitrage
Trading text books always talk about cross-currency arbitrage, also called triangular arbitrage. Yet 
the chances of this type of opportunity coming up, much less being able to profit from it are remote.
With triangular arbitrage, the aim is to exploit discrepancies in the cross rates of different currency 
pairs.
For example, suppose we have:
Broker A
EUR/USD = 1.1615
GBP/USD = 1.3148
This means we should have the cross rate:
GBP/EUR = 1.3148/1.1615 = 1.1319
Suppose Broker B quotes GBP/EUR at 1.1300. From the above the arbitrageur does the following 
trade:
Buy 1.13 EUR @ 1.1615×1.1319 USD from Broker A
Buy 1 GBP @ 1.1319 EUR from Broker B
Sell 1 GBP @ 1.3148 USD to Broker A
His profit is 1.3148 USD – 1.1615 × 1.1310 USD = .0001 USD
Of course, in reality the arbitrageur could have increased his deal sizes. If he trades standard lots, 
his profit would have been 1000,000 × .0001 or $100.
Interest Rate Arbitrage
Another form of arbitrage that is common in currency trading is interest rate arbitrage, also known 
as “carry trade.” This is when an investor sells currency from a country with low interest rates and 
buys and holds a currency from a country paying higher interest rates. When the investor reverses the 
operation at a later time, they will receive the net difference in interest paid on the two currencies. 
Because this operation is carried out over a period of time, the trader also may be subject to risks 
of variations in the levels of currencies or in interest rates.
Spot-Future Arbitrage: Cash And Carry
An additional form of arbitrage, known popularly as “cash and carry,” involves taking positions in the 
same asset in both the spot and futures markets. With this technique, the trader buys an underlying 
asset and sells, or “shorts,” the same asset in the futures market while the asset is purchased.
A similar strategy can also be taken in the other direction, and it’s known as “reverse cash and carry.” 
In this operation, the trader sells the underlying asset and buys, or “goes long,” on the same asset 
in the futures market.
Treasury Management.indb 137 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
138 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Someone who practices arbitrage is known as an “arbitrageur.” Simply put, an arbitrageur buys 
cheaper assets and sells more expensive assets simultaneously to take a profit with no net cash flow. 
In theory, the practice of arbitrage should require no capital and involve no risk, although in practice 
attempts at arbitrage generally involve both,
While the above indicated transactions are technically possible in the aforesaid market conditions, it 
would, however, be subject to the directions/indications from the regulatory authorities, from time 
to time, as most of the actions should be in tune with overall objectives of maintaining orderliness 
in the market.
Let Us Sum Up
Exchange rate refers to the price of one currency against another currency. Spot transaction facilitates 
settlement after two working days whereas Tom transaction permits settlement after one day. Exchange 
rate are influenced by host of factors like, demand supply, relative strength of economies, monetary 
policies, political climate, inflation and interest differentials, etc.
Keywords
Spot, Tom and forward transactions, ADs, Net Overnight Open Position Limit, Tier I capital
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Which is the most authentic source of information on the size and structure of global foreign 
exchange and OTC markets?
(a) Triennial survey of BIS
(b) RBI’s survey on unclassified receipts
(c) Growth of global financial markets survey by FED
(d) Survey by Monetary Authority of Singapore
2. Till recently the Malaysian Ringgit was pegged to which currency?
(a) Great British Pound
(b) United States Dollars
(c) Australian Dollars
(d) Thai Baht
3. What is the restriction on ‘Restricted Money Changers’?
(a) They are allowed to operate only certain days of the week.
(b) They are allowed to transact with restricted group of clients only.
(c) They are not allowed to sell foreign currency to clients.
(d) They are allowed to operate only in certain currencies.
Treasury Management.indb 138 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (FX) MARKETS 139
4. What is the amount up to which ADs can leave the forex transactions uncovered?
(a) Market determined
(b) Amount equal to their Tier I capital
(c) Amount as indicated by FEDAI
(d) Amount equal to NOOPL
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 139 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
 DERIVATIVES – AN
OVERVIEW
STRUCTURE
11.0 Objective
11.1 Introduction
11.2 Characteristics of Derivatives
11.3 Functions of Derivatives
11.4 Users of Derivatives
11.5 Futures
11.6 Forward Contract
11.7 Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
11
Treasury Management.indb 140 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 141
11.0 OBJECTIVE
After a careful reading of the chapter, the reader becomes well versed in basics of derivatives by 
understanding characteristics and functions of derivatives, futures and forward contracts, bond futures, 
stock index futures, etc. The section also provides inputs on Forward Rate Agreements and pricing of FRAs.
11.1 INTRODUCTION
Investment involves setting aside substantial amount of money in the hope of receiving interest 
and gains on account of price increase. There is a possibility that the expected price rise may not 
happen, thereby resulting in loss of investment and income. Consider investing in a share in the 
hope of a price rise. If the price increase happens, the investment is profitable. If the price rise does 
not happen then the investment would become unprofitable. This is the normal investment route. 
In order to reduce the chances of such losses the derivate market has been developed. A derivative 
will enable an investor to take a chance on the possibility of price rise or fall even without the initial 
investment. Derivative is thus an instrument whose value depends on the values of other more basic 
underlying variables. The underlying variables could be:
(i) Stock prices
(ii) Exchange rates
(iii) Interest rates
(iv) Exotics (like wind velocity, racing horse’s speed and the like)
These underlying variables are called cash market variables.
As an example, consider the following financial contract:
The market offers a contract to buy Y stock if the price of stock is `1007 or more. In this contract 
there will be a gain of `101 if the closing price of Y stock is `1108 tomorrow wherein the investor 
in the contract can buy the stock at `1007 and sell it at `1108. On the contrary if the price were to 
fall lower than `1007 say `900, then there will be no purchase of stock under this specific contract 
at the pre agreed price of `1007, and the investor would have only paid the price for buying the 
contract. If the price does not move, there will be no gain accruing to the investor.
As against this, if the stock Y was purchased at `1007, a price of `1108 will give a profit of `101, 
while at the price of `900 the loss would be `107. In the case of the purchase there is also the cost 
of funding the purchase.
The payoff that one may receive from the above contract is dependent on/or derived from the Y 
stock’s price. The above financial contract is an example of a derivative contract. The payoff from 
such a contract is derived from the behaviour of an underlying variable like a stock price.
11.2 CHARACTERISTICS OF DERIVATIVES
1. Derivatives have the characteristic of Leverage or Gearing.
2. With a small initial outlay of funds (a small percentage of the entire contract value), one can 
deal big volumes. As such, because of the leverage, just as the profit potential is high, the 
losses can also be high.
Treasury Management.indb 141 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
142 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
3. Pricing and trading in derivatives are complex, and a thorough understanding of the price 
behavior of the underlying and product structure is an essential pre-requisite before one can 
venture into dealing in these products.
4. Derivatives, by themselves, have no independent value. Their value is derived out of the 
underlying instruments.
11.3 FUNCTIONS OF DERIVATIVES
(i) Derivatives shift the price risk from the buyer of the derivative product to the seller and as 
such are very effective risk management tools.
(ii) Derivatives improve the liquidity of the underlying instrument. Derivatives perform an 
important economic function, viz., price discovery. They provide better avenues for fixing 
cost of raising money. They contribute substantially to increasing the depth of the markets.
11.4 USERS OF DERIVATIVES
Hedgers, Traders, and Speculators use derivatives for different purposes. Hedgers use derivatives 
to protect their assets/positions from erosion in value due to market volatility. Traders look for 
enhancing their income by making a two-way price for other market participants. Speculators set 
their eyes on making quick money by taking advantage of the volatile price movements. Hedging 
is a mechanism by which an investor seeks to protect his asset from erosion in value due to adverse 
market price movements. A Hedger is usually interested in streamlining his future cash flows. He is 
most concerned when the market prices are very volatile. He is less concerned with future positive 
potential of the value of underlying asset.
A speculator (also known as Trader) has, normally, no asset in his possession to protect. He is not 
concerned with stabilizing his future cash flows. He is interested only in making quick money by 
taking advantage of the price movements in the market. He is quite happy with volatility. In fact, 
volatility is his daily bread and butter.
Arbitrageurs also form a segment of the financial markets. They make riskless profit by exploiting the 
price differentials in different markets. For example, if a company’s shares were trading at `3500 in 
Mumbai market and `3498 in Delhi market, an arbitrageur will buy it in Delhi and sell it in Mumbai 
to make a riskless profit of `2/ (transaction cost is ignored for the purpose of this example). Such 
successive transactions will iron out the difference in prices and bring equilibrium in the market. 
However, arbitraging without strict internal controls is not a very safe way of making money as 
proved in the case of Barings Bank, where unscrupulous arbitraging between Osaka and Tokyo 
exchanges in Nikkei Stock index futures drove the Bank to bankruptcy.
Salient Points
1. Financial Derivatives are products whose values are derived from the values of the underlying, 
be it an asset, a benchmark index or a traded price.
2. Derivatives have the characteristics of high leverage and of being complex in their pricing 
and trading mechanism.
Treasury Management.indb 142 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 143
3. Derivatives enable price discovery, improve the liquidity of the underlying asset, serve as 
effective hedge instruments, and offer better ways of fixing cost of raising money.
4. The main players in a financial market include hedgers, speculators arbitrageurs, and traders.
5. Hedging can be done in two ways, viz., fixing a price (the linear way) and taking an insurance 
(non-linear or asymmetric way).
There are a variety of derivative contracts. Basically these are forwards, futures, swaps and options. 
Forwards are definitive purchases and/or sales of a stock, currency or commodity for a future date. 
Forward contracts are contracted for a particular value and should be transacted on a given date. 
Forwards are useful in avoiding liquidity risk, price variations, and locking in at a price for avoiding 
a downside. Forward, however, has the limitation that the contract has to be performed in full and 
has attendant credit risk and market risk. Forwards are most useful in forex transactions where a 
spot transaction can be covered by a contrary move in the forward market.
The other derivatives are futures, swaps and options.
11.5 FUTURES
11.5.1 Futures Contract
It is an agreement to buy or sell an asset or a benchmark interest rate for a certain price at a certain 
time. It is similar to forward contract. While a forward contract is traded over the counter, a futures 
contract is traded on an exchange. It has standardized contract parameters.
Sr. No. Forwards Futures
1. Essentially, OTC contracts involve only the buyer and the seller.
2. Both the parties have to perform the contract.
3. There is no payment of any initial margins.
4. The maturity and size of the contract may be customized.
5. Settlement takes place only on the date of maturity.
6. Credit or Counter-party risk is high.
7. Markets for forward contracts are not very liquid.
8. Physical delivery takes place on the maturity date.
9. A contract is traded through an exchange. Buyer, Seller and Exchange are involved.
10. The contract need not necessarily culminate in the delivery of underlying.
11. To trade in futures contract, one has to become a member of the exchange by paying the initial 
margin, and maintain a variable margin account too with the Futures Exchange.
12. The maturity and size of contracts are standardized.
13. Contracts are generally net settled on expiry date with current spot price of underlying.
14. Margining is done on a daily basis, on all the outstanding contracts (marking to market on a 
daily basis), to eliminate credit risk.
15. The Futures Exchange takes care of credit or counter-party risk.
16. Futures contracts are highly liquid and can be closed out easily.
17. Hardly 2% of the total contracts are delivered and taken delivery of.
Treasury Management.indb 143 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
144 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The difference between a forward contract and a futures contract can be summarized as follows: A 
futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a standard quantity and quality of a given underlying 
on a future date through the medium of an Exchange House at a price which is predetermined. The 
definition may look very similar to a simple forward contract, but the differences between the two 
are many. Let us first list down the differences between a forward contract and a futures contract.
Thus, futures contracts differ considerably from simple forward contracts. To trade in Futures 
contracts, one has to become a member of the Exchange by paying an Initial Margin that is normally 
based on the price volatility of the underlying instrument. The variable margin account has to be 
maintained with the Exchange, so that the daily profit or loss on the outstanding position on account 
of marking to market or the actual profit or loss, arising out of closing out of open positions may be 
accounted for. Further, the contracts are normally maturing on the third Wednesday of the calendar 
months of March, June, September, and December. The size of the contract too is standardised. For 
example, the Euro $ interest rate futures has a standard size of USD 1 mio per contract, which means 
that one can trade only in a standard size of 1 mio or its multiples, and that too for the standard 
maturities in March, June, September, and December. As Futures contracts are entered into basically 
for hedging purposes, physical delivery of the underlying instrument between the buyer and the seller 
rarely takes place. If physical delivery is to take place, the quality and the quantity of the underlying 
are standardized by the Exchange, and the counter parties are bound by such standardization.
In India, futures contracts are available and traded on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and 
The Stock Exchange, Mumbai (BSE). These contracts are either for the Indices – BSE Sensex and 
NSE NIFTY, or for specific stocks. Further, commodity futures are traded on the three commodity 
exchanges, viz., NCDEX, MCX, and as of now there is no trading on bond futures. Interest Rate 
Futures are also available in Treasury Bills and Benchmark bonds.
Salient Points
1. Futures contracts are traded through an exchange, and are very liquid.
2. The size and maturities of a futures contract are standardized.
3. Marking to market of outstanding positions at the end of each trading day is a risk management 
feature of futures markets.
4. Initial and Variable margins are to be maintained with the exchange by participants of futures 
market.
5. Physical delivery of futures contracts is minimal, and positions are normally closed out by 
opposite trades at price of underlying in the cash market on expiry day.
6. The futures exchange guarantees the settlement between various parties to the market, and 
hence counter party risk is absent.
7. Futures are available on currencies, bonds, interest rates, stock indices, commodities, etc.
8. Each of the above futures contracts has its own specifications and procedures.
11.5.2 Currency Futures
Currency Futures were first introduced in the International Money Market at Chicago, USA in 
the year 1972. These are contracts where there is a commitment to deliver or take delivery of one 
Treasury Management.indb 144 6/19/2018 6:24:03 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 145
currency against receipt or payment in another currency at an exchange rate agreed to at the time of 
entering into the contract. This definition may look very similar to a forward contract, but we have 
already seen the major differences between the forwards and futures contracts. Currency Futures 
are available in the major exchanges in the world, viz., The London International Financial Futures 
Exchange (LIFFE), The Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, Chicago Board of Trade 
and, Singapore International Monetary Exchange (SIMEX). The contracts have standard sizes, and 
the prices are normally quoted in US Dollar terms. The standard sizes are 125000 per contract for 
Euro, CHF, etc., 62500 for Pound Sterling, and 12.5 Mio for Japanese Yen. The price movements 
are calibrated to move with a minimum tick size. The tick size is 0.01 % or 0.0001 per unit of the 
currency. Hence if the exchange rate moves by 1 pip, the loss or profit for this unit movement in 
price is the product of 0.0001 and the contract size.
Hedging currency exposures through currency futures is a very popular strategy adopted by various 
treasury and forex managers. Let us say we have a long position of Euro 1 mio against the USD at 
an exchange rate of 1 Euro = 0.9450 USD, and we are worried that the exchange rate of Euro against 
the Dollar would weaken. In order to hedge this risk, we sell Euro futures (4 contracts × 125000) 
at the current futures price, say, 0.9500 USD to a Euro. If Euro falls to USD 0.9400 in the cash 
market, we lose on the underlying long position of 1 mio against the dollar, the loss being 1 mio × 
0.0050 (0.9450 – 0.9400) = USD 5000. However, if the futures settle at 0.9445, we make profit on 
the futures position. The profit is 4 × 125000 × 0.0055 (0.9500 – 0.9445) = USD 5500. Thus, we 
make a net profit of 500 USD under these transactions and our long position in Euro is also hedged. 
However, this may not always be the situation. The price movement in the futures and in the cash 
markets may not move in tandem, and may result in a net loss on the transactions too. The prices 
of currency futures are determined by the simple interest parity theorem or in the same manner as 
currency forwards are priced. The following equation gives the price of futures.
Futures Price = Spot price × (1 + Interest Rate of Domestic Currency × Days/360)
(1 + Interest Rate of Foreign Currency × Days/360)
11.5.3 Bond Futures
Bond Futures are available in the international exchanges for two major maturities, viz., 5 years and 
10 years. The conventions of the bond futures are slightly different from those of currency futures. 
As there may be many bonds whose maturities are closer (either higher or lower) to the standard 
5/10 years maturities, a notional bond of 5/10 years respectively is created with a notional yield. 
The price of the futures moves around this notional yield, and there is a basket of bonds of the same 
kind with a maturity closer to the futures’ maturity of 5/10 years. This basket is called the deliverable 
basket, and its contents are determined by the futures exchanges. A party willingly taking physical 
delivery on expiry of the contract should accept delivery of any of the bonds from this basket. As the 
yield to maturities of these bonds in the basket may be different, as their maturities are different, a 
conversion factor is furnished by the exchange and the quantum of bonds to be delivered is determined 
on the basis of these conversion factors. The contracts are available for maturity in March, June, 
September, and December of the year, and the settlement date for each of these maturities is the last 
Wednesday of the respective month.
Treasury Management.indb 145 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
146 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Let us look at the special features of bond futures with an example. The 10 years Euro Bond Futures 
in the Frankfurt exchange has a notional yield of 6%, which means that when the 10 years futures 
interest rate is perceived to be at 6% by the market players, the yield will correspond to 6%, the 
notional rate. As the expectations in the movement of interest rate for 10 years change, the futures 
price will also change. If the expected interest rate is above 6%, the futures price will fall below 
100 and if the interest rate is perceived to be below 6%, the futures price moves upwards above 
100. The minimum price movement is 0.01% or 0.0001, and for each tick movement in price the 
profit or loss for the futures position holder is Euro 10 as the contract size is Euro 100 000 per 
contract. A treasury manager who wishes to hedge his Euro bond portfolio against price risk would 
sell bond futures for, if the interest rate goes higher, the futures price would fall and he would 
make a profit on the futures position. However, his cash position would suffer a loss if the interest 
rate goes up, because then the price would fall. In case of physical delivery on the maturity of the 
contract, the person having an open sold position in the futures is at liberty to deliver any bond 
from out of the basket of deliverable bonds determined by the exchange, and the buyer is obliged 
to accept delivery of the same. The seller would, therefore, try to deliver the cheapest bond from 
the basket. The cheapest to deliver is worked out on the basis of the demand for the bonds in the 
deliverable basket of the Repo markets. The bond which has the highest implied repo rate will be 
the cheapest to deliver; the reason being this bond with the highest repo rate becomes unattractive 
to be used in the repo transactions as the interest cost for borrowing money through repurchase 
agreement using this bond is high. Hence, the bond with the least implied repo rate, will be the 
most sought after bond in the basket as the holder can repo this bond and borrow money at a very 
cheap rate.
11.5.4 Stock Index Futures
Stock index futures offer a convenient hedging mechanism to holders of stocks. When we trade in 
stock index futures, we take a view on what direction the stock index would move in the future. As 
the index futures are based on the movements of a mere number, viz., the stock index, there is no 
physical delivery of the underlying under the contract. The contract is always cash-settled.
In India, two stock index futures, viz., the Bombay Stock Exchange Futures based on Sensex Index 
and the National Stock Exchange Futures based on Nifty (the stock index of 50 securities of NSE) are 
available. Both these contracts were introduced from June 2000. Let us briefly discuss the features 
of the Nifty futures. The Nifty futures have a standard lot size of 100, and the contract value is the 
product of the Nifty and contract size, viz., 100. Three contracts are available at a time. They are 
the immediate month, next month, and the third month maturities. The contracts come to a close on 
the last Thursdays of the respective months.
In order to hedge a portfolio of stocks using Nifty Futures, one has to determine the exact number 
of contracts to be sold. At the outset, we must know the Beta of our portfolio. The number of lots 
of futures to sell is then equal to:
 Portfolio Size × Beta
Ongoing Futures Price × 100 (the standard size)
Chapter 1-15.indd 146 6/21/2018 4:38:27 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 147
(Beta is the ratio of the change in a portfolio’s return or an individual stock’s return to the return 
of the market as a whole) Let us say, we have acquired `25,00,000 worth of shares of a blue chip 
company on 1 April 2017. Let the beta of the shares be 1.5. We would like to protect or hedge this 
portfolio for, say, a month. We have to, obviously, sell the April futures at the ongoing price in order 
to hedge the underlying.
No. of lots to be sold = 25,00,000 × 1.5
1020 × 100 (the standard size of Nifty futures)
(1020 is the current April Nifty futures Price)
= 36.76 or “37” lots
The 37 lots are sold to hedge the portfolio, and if the futures settle at a lower level on the target date, 
the profit on futures will take care of the loss on the underlying portfolio on account of the decline 
in prices. Let us say, by the last Thursday of the month of April, the futures settle at 980, the profit 
on closing out the futures position is = (1020 – 980) × 100 × 37 = `1,48,000.
Let us say the underlying stock has also depreciated in value, and our holdings are reduced to a 
value of `23,60,000. The loss on the underlying cash position is, therefore, `1,40,000 (2500000 – 
236000). The net profit is thus, `8000 (148000 – 140000). The portfolio is hedged, and a small 
profit on futures is also made. Recently futures on individual stocks have also been introduced in 
the Indian markets.
11.5.5 Pricing Financial Futures
The price of any futures contract has three essential components. These are:
(a) the spot price of the underlying asset.
(b) the cost of financing, storing, insuring and transporting the asset.
(c) the income if any, earned from the asset.
Taking all these three factors into account futures price will be equal to the spot price + financing, 
and other costs – income if any.
F.P = S.P + Costs – Income.
In the case of commodity futures, all the four costs mentioned at (b) above are applicable, whereas, 
in the case of financial futures, perhaps, only the financing cost is material. Therefore, for financial 
futures, it is the interest rate (financing cost) which determines the futures price. This is very similar 
to pricing a simple forward contract.
Futures Price = Spot Price × (1 + r)t
Where r is the rate of interest, and t is the time period of the contract.
If one were to use continuous compounding, the above formula will stand modified to,
Futures Price = Spot Price × er
.
t
(where e is the exponential)
Treasury Management.indb 147 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
148 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The futures price for all practical purposes, would be equal to forward price. However, when interest 
rates increase, the price of the underlying also increases giving an advantage to the holder, and the 
financing cost also goes higher. On the contrary, if the interest rates go lower, the underlying asset 
depreciates in value and results in a loss to the holder, and the cost of financing for holding the 
asset also becomes lower. Thus, there has to be a correlation between the movement of price of the 
underlying and the movement of the financing cost. This is not true of forward contracts, where the 
two counter-parties are locked to the pre-agreed forward price. However, it must be noted that the 
futures price and future spot price will tend to converge near the maturity of the contract.
11.6 FORWARD CONTRACT
A forward foreign exchange transaction is one which is executed today at a rate agreed today, 
but settlement takes place at an agreed future time. The outright Forward Rate is calculated as a 
combination of spot exchange rate and interest rates over a period of time in the future.
As an example, consider an importer who has to make a USD payment 6 months from now. Thus, 
he would have to buy USD exactly 6 months from now. However, he is not sure what the USD/
INR rate would be. Hence, he enters into a contract to buy USD after 6 months at a pre-determined 
rate. Thus, a forward contract is an agreement where 2 parties agree to specified trade at a specified 
point in future.
In a forwards contract:
The contract is negotiated directly by the buyer and seller. It is an OTC (over the counter) agreement.
Terms of the contract can be tailored to suit the needs of each party No money changes hands when 
a contract is first negotiated and it is settled at maturity.
Neither party can walk away unilaterally from the contract, i.e., both parties are obliged to fill their 
contractual terms.
Customers who are not very sure of the exact date of delivery of foreign exchange (purchase/sale) 
can seek optional deliverable period as the maturity. It can be first week of a month, first fortnight of 
a month, or any day in a month, and so on. Accordingly, the bank will pass on the forward premium 
up to the earliest optional delivery period for Forward Purchase Contracts and charge premium up 
to the last optional delivery period for Forward Sales Contracts. If foreign exchange is delivered or 
taken delivery of, earlier than the maturity date, customer will have to bear early delivery charges. 
A Forward Exchange Contract will be cancelled by the Bank on the seventh day after maturity if 
actual delivery does not happen, and the cancellation charges are to be borne by the customer.
All forward contract bookings must be with genuine underlying, in the form of a firm order, LC, 
bill, etc. Forward contracts booked with genuine underlying are freely cancellable and rebooked, 
and the exchange gains can be passed on to the customer. Customers with large trading volumes are 
permitted to book forward contracts up to a limit, on past performance basis, without underlying at 
the time of booking. Such entities can freely book and cancel forward contracts up to 75% of their 
turnover and Banks can pass on the profits on cancellation too. However, for contracts cancelled 
beyond 75% of turnover, the profits cannot be passed on to the customer.
Treasury Management.indb 148 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 149
With a view to bypass local foreign exchange restrictions, and yet take a bet on Rupee movement 
against foreign currency, foreign entities trade in NON DELIVERABLE FORWARDS (NDF). 
The NDF market is active in overseas markets like Singapore, Hong Kong and Dubai and are cash 
settled on expiry date. Actual physical delivery of currency does not happen. The difference between 
contracted price and cash price on expiry date is net settled. Parties resident outside the home 
country (to avoid regulatory purview of the home currency country) enter into NDF contracts and 
net settlement, for say, USD/INR NDFs will not be in INR, but a convertible currency, say USD.
11.7 FORWARD RATE AGREEMENT (FRA)
Introduction
An FRA is a forward contract on the interest rate. It is a financial contract to exchange interest 
payments based on a fixed interest rate with payments based on floating interest rate like 6m LIBOR/ 
3 m MIBOR. The exchange of payments is based on a notional principal of the FRA. Thus, there 
are 2 legs in an FRA – the fixed leg and the floating leg.
Consider a company which has an expected requirement for funds after 3 months. It is concerned 
that the interest rates will head higher from the current levels, and hence it may have to pay higher 
interest rate on the loan. The company can enter into an FRA, where it pays fixed interest rate to 
hedge or fix its borrowing cost today for a requirement after 3 months. The fixed rate agreed via 
the FRA will be compared to the benchmark rate at the settlement date to determine the settlement 
amount.
If a corporate borrowed for a period of 3 months, 3 months from now, it is referred to as a 3 × 6 FRA, 
meaning beginning THREE months from now and ending SIX months from now. If the corporate 
buys a FRA, then it pays a particular fixed rate and receives a floating rate, hence, it hedges against 
any rise in the interest rates. If a corporate sells a FRA, then it receives a particular fixed rate and 
pays a floating rate; hence, it hedges against any fall in the interest rates.
Consider the following example of a FRA. A corporate sells an FRA on the following terms:
Notional principal: INR 250 Million (INR 25 cr.)
Corporate to receive: 5.60% fixed
Corporate to pay: 3 month NSE MIBOR
Term of FRA: 3 × 6
Tenor of FRA: 90 days
On the settlement date, the 3 month NSE MIBOR is 6.00%.
In this case, the corporate will have to pay
(6.00% – 5.60%) × 25,00,00,000/- × 90/365 = `2,46,575.34
This amount is settled upfront at the beginning of the FRA period, discounted at the benchmark 
rate.
Treasury Management.indb 149 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
150 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Example
A Forward Rate Agreement is a contract between two parties, by which they agree to settle between 
them the interest differential on a notional principal on a future settlement date for a specified future 
period.
Let us assume that a corporate wants to borrow a sum of `1 crore for a period of 6 months, starting 
3 months from today. Its main concern is that the 6 months interest rate may rise in 3 months time, 
and hence it wants to lock in a rate right today for a future borrowing commitment. It enters into a 
3 × 9 FRA with a counter party for a notional amount of `1 crore. If the counterparty quotes, say, 
6.25/6.50 for a 3 × 9 FRA, the corporate buys the FRA at 6.50 which effectively means that it is 
locking itself for 6.5% for the above borrowing commitment. If on the date of settlement, which 
is the date 3 months from today when the borrowing commitment has to be met, the bench mark 
rate agreed to by the counterparties settle, say, at 7.00%, the corporate’s view on the interest rate 
has come true and it is paid by the seller of FRA the difference of 0.50% (7 – 6.5) on the notional 
principal for a period of 6 months discounted at 7%. The amount receivable by the corporate is 
calculated as under:
 10000000 × 0.50 × 0.50
36500 × 
1
(1 + 0.07 × 181/365)
On the other hand, if the benchmark interest rate settles at, say, 6.25% on the settlement date, the 
corporate pays the seller of FRA the difference of 0.25% (6.5–6.25) on the notional principal of 
`1 crore discounted at 6.25%. Thus in both the cases (whether the interest rate rises or falls) the 
corporate’s effective borrowing rate remains unchanged at 6.5%.
11.7.1 Market Conventions of FRAs
The principal amount is only notional. There is no commitment on either of the counterparties to 
either lend or borrow this amount.
The convention in FRA markets is to denote the FRA as 3 × 6, 6 × 9 etc. A 6 × 9 FRA means seeking 
protection for a 3 months borrowing or lending commitment, starting 6 months from today and ending 
9 months from today. A 9 × 12 FRA means seeking protection for a 3 months borrowing or lending 
commitment starting 9 months from today and ending 12 months from today and so on so forth.
Prices are quoted two ways in the market for FRAs. Obviously, the customer buys at the higher of 
the two rates, and sells at the lower rate.
The benchmark interest rate is a reference rate, basically a floating rate like T Bill rate, Libor, etc., 
to compare the FRA rate on the settlement day, and to enable the settlement of difference in rates 
on the notional principal.
The discounting of the amount to be settled is due to the fact that the difference of interest is settled 
at the beginning of a borrowing or lending commitment, whereas normally interest is payable on 
maturity of a loan.
Treasury Management.indb 150 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 151
Borrowers at a future point of time buy the FRA to lock themselves at a fixed rate, whereas lenders 
sell FRA to lock in a fixed return on their future lending.
11.7.2 Pricing a Forward Rate Agreement
Let us price a 3 × 12 FRA when the market rates for various months are as follows:
1 m = 6.00/6.25%
2 m = 6.50/6.75%
3 m = 7.00/7.30%
6 m = 7.50/7.80%
9 m = 8.00/8.30%
12 m = 8.50/8.75%
A 3 × 12 FRA is equivalent to a commitment to either lend or borrow a sum of money for a period 
of 9 months starting 3 months from today and ending 12 months from today.
Given the above yield curve, if we have to lend money for 9m starting 3m from today, initially we 
have to borrow the money for 12m and invest it for 3m. On completion of 3m, the investment will 
mature and we can again lend it for 9m.
We can borrow money for 12m from the market at 8.75%, and the repayment amount after 12 months 
will be (1 + 0.0875). The amount, thus, borrowed can be invested for 3m at 7%, and this investment 
on maturity can be invested at some unknown forward rate, for 9m say ‘r’. The compounded value 
of these two cash flows will be (1 + 0.07 × 91/365) * (1 + r × 271/365).
The above two cash flows should be equal for us to break, even in terms of interest cost.
Therefore, (1 + 0.0875) = (1 + 0.07 × 91/365) * (1 + r × 271/365). From the preceding equation, the 
value of ‘r’ can be easily calculated, (r = 9.27%). Similarly, if we borrow money for 3m at 7.30%, 
and renew this borrowal for 9m at the end of 3 months (the interest rate for such a forward borrowing 
needs to be calculated), and we lend the money at one go for 12m at 8.50%, the following equation 
will be true:
(1 + 0.0850) = (1 + 0.0730 × 91/365) × (1 + r × 271/365) from which ‘r’ can be calculated.
Here, r = 8.84%.
These two rates 8.84% and 9.27% serve as the base rates for us to price the FRA.
An FRA is a simple forward contract on interest rate, where the performance is limited to the interest 
differential on a given notional principal. Hence, it is easy to understand its mechanism, implications, 
and settlement calculations.
As FRAs are OTC contracts, it is easy to customise the size, and periods to suit the needs of the customer.
Further, as the commitment is only to settle the interest differential, the credit risk with the counter 
party is minimal.
Treasury Management.indb 151 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
152 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
FRAs can be used effectively to lock in interest rates and, thus, manage the gaps between rate sensitive 
assets and liabilities of the balance sheet. Thus, they are very useful in Asset Liability Management 
as they can easily replicate cash market transactions with a lower capital requirement, and can also 
improve the liquidity of the underlying cash markets.
FRAs do not enjoy very liquid markets. At times, it may become difficult to dispose of an FRA in 
the market at competitive prices. This is very true in shallow markets, as the ones prevailing in India. 
Cancellation of an FRA too would be difficult in the absence of a ready market.
The pricing of an FRA has to be done in tune with the market determined Yield Curve, otherwise 
imperfections in pricing would lead to financial loss.
The credit risk in an FRA may be restricted to the interest differential on the notional principal, yet 
the default risk of the counter party not paying the difference is very much present.
Salient Points
1. Forward Rate Agreements, Financial Futures, and Interest Rate Swaps are linear derivatives, 
whereas, Options are nonlinear.
2. Forward Rate Agreements are over the counter type derivatives which are used to hedge short 
term interest rate risk.
3. A Forward Rate Agreement is a contract between two parties by which they agree to settle 
between them, the interest differential on a notional principal on a future settlement date for 
a specified future period.
4. A person who has a commitment to borrow money at a future point of time buys a Forward Rate 
Agreement to protect himself against interest rate risk, and a person who has a commitment 
to lend money at a future point of time sells a Forward Rate Agreement to hedge his interest 
rate exposure.
Let Us Sum Up
A derivative will enable an investor to take a chance on the possibility of a price rise or fall even 
without the initial investment. Derivative is thus an instrument whose value depends on the values 
of other more basic underlying variables. Derivatives are effective risk management tools. Hedgers, 
traders and speculators use derivatives for different purposes. Futures contract is an agreement to buy 
or sell an asset for a certain price at a certain time. Forwards are OTC products whereas Futures are 
Exchange traded. Currency futures were first introduced in International Money Market, Chicago, 
USA in 1972.There are also Bond futures and Stock index futures. An FRA is a forward contract 
on the interest rate. The pricing of an FRA is based on the principle of borrowing and lending for 
appropriate periods at market rates and recovering the difference from the FRA counter party.
Keywords
Derivatives, leverage, Futures, OTC market, Currency futures, Bond futures, Stock index futures, 
Forward contract, Forward Rate Agreement and notional principal amount.
Treasury Management.indb 152 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
DERIVATIVES – AN OVERVIEW 153
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Derivatives which have no value by themselves, derive the value from what?
(a) Underlying instrument
(b) Market counter parties
(c) Mutual agreement
(d) Approval from Regulator
2. Who are the third group of users of derivatives apart from hedgers and traders?
(a) Business people
(b) Speculators
(c) Banks
(d) Corporates
3. Forward contracts are used to hedge which of the following risk?
(a) Reputational risk
(b) Legal risk
(c) Exchange rate risk
(d) Operational risk
4. Which risk is hedged by the use of Forward Rate Agreements (FRAs)?
(a) Credit risk
(b) Settlement risk
(c) Compliance risk
(d) Interest rate risk
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 153 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
SWAP
STRUCTURE
12.0 Objective
12.1 Introduction
12.2 Pricing an Interest Rate SWAP
12.3 Types of Interest Rate SWAPS
12.4 Salient Features of RBI Guidelines on IRS
Let Us Sum Up
Check Your Progress
UNIT
12
Treasury Management.indb 154 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
SWAP 155
12.0 OBJECTIVE
The objective is to provide the reader with basic information on swaps like Interest rate swap, 
Currency swap, Basis swap, Overnight Index Swap (OIS), etc. Types of Interest Rate Swaps and 
pricing interest rate swaps have also been discussed. The section ends with salient features of RBI 
guidelines on IRS.
12.1 INTRODUCTION
A swap in simple terms can be explained as a transaction to exchange one thing for another or ‘barter’. 
In financial markets the two parties to swap a transaction contract exchange cash flows. An interest 
rate swap is a custom tailored bilateral agreement in which cash flows are determined by applying 
a prearranged formula on a notional principal, whereas in a currency swap, physical exchange of 
one currency against another takes place at pre-determined prices.
Interest Rate Swap: where cash flows at a fixed rate of interest are exchanged for those referenced 
to a floating rate. Interest Rate Swaps involving exchange of interest payments linked/referenced to 
two floating rates are also used/available in the market.
Currency Swap: where one currency is exchanged for another currency at pre agreed prices.
Basis Swaps: where cash flows on both the legs of the swap are referenced to different floating rates.
Interest Rate Swap: is a contractual agreement to exchange a series of cash flows. One leg of cash 
flow is based on a fixed interest rate, and the other leg is based on a floating interest rate over a 
period of time. There is no exchange of principal. The size of the swap is referred to as the notional 
principal amount, and is the basis for calculating the cash flows. Example of such swaps in the 
Indian market are:
Overnight Index Swaps (OIS) – Fixed v/s NSE Overnight MIBOR Index
Mumbai Inter-bank Forward Offer Rate (MIFOR) Swap – Fixed V/s Implied INR yield is derived 
from the USD/INR premium and the relevant USD Libor for that tenor, usually 6 months. MIFOR 
is permitted between Banks only and cannot be used with customers as counterparties.
INBMK Swap – Fixed v/s 1 year INBMK rate
The 1 year INBMK rate is derived from the rate on the benchmark Indian Government of India 
securities of one year tenor.
A currency swap is conceptually similar to an interest rate swap. The main differences are:
• Each interest rate is in a different currency.
• The notional amount is now replaced by two principal amounts – one in each currency.
• These principal amounts are typically exchanged at the start of the swap, and then re-exchanged 
at maturity.
Treasury Management.indb 155 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
156 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The major difference between a generic interest rate swap (IRS) and a generic currency swap (CCIRS) 
is that the latter includes not only the exchange of interest rate payments, but also the exchange of 
principal amounts both initially and on termination. Since the payments made by both parties are in 
different currencies, the payments need not be netted.
The different kinds of currency swaps are as follows:
• Principal + Interest Swap – Covers both Principal and Coupon flows
• Principal Only Swap (POS) – Covers only Principal amount
• Coupon (Interest) Only Swap – Covers only Coupon flows
A Basis swap could be an Interest Rate Swap or a currency swap where both legs are based on a 
floating rate. A basis swap involves a regular exchange of cash flows, both of which are based on 
floating interest rates. Most swaps are based on payment of a fixed rate against a floating rate, say, 
LIBOR. In the basis swap both legs are calculated on floating rates.
6 months USD LIBOR against 3 months USD LIBOR
6 months JPY LIBOR against 6 months USD LIBOR
6 months MIFOR against 6 Months USD LIBOR
A Basis Swap is most commonly used when:
• Liabilities are tied to one floating rate index and
• Financial assets are tied to another floating index
This mismatch can be hedged via a basis swap:
• To create either synthetic fixed or floating rate liabilities or assets.
• To hedge against adverse movements.
• As an asset liability management tool.
• To reduce the funding cost by exploiting the comparative advantage that each counterparty 
has in the fixed/floating rate markets.
For trading:
In the Indian market, banks are allowed to run a book on swaps, which have an Indian Rupee leg. 
Banks can offer swaps, which do not have an Indian Rupee leg, to their customers, but have to cover 
these with an overseas bank on a back-to-back basis.
12.2 PRICING AN INTEREST RATE SWAP
An interest rate swap is simply an exchange of a fixed rate cash flow for a floating rate cash flow or 
vice versa, on the agreed Notional Principal amount. Hence, the first step in pricing an IRS consists 
in finding the present values of these two cash flows. The net present value of the cash flows of 
these two should be equal to start with. It is easy to compute the present value of the fixed rate leg as 
risk free zero rates for various maturities are easily available from, say, government securities yield 
curve. It is not so easy to compute the present value of floating leg payments, as one does not know 
what the rates are likely to be in future. Hence using the zero rates, an implied forward yield curve is 
Treasury Management.indb 156 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
SWAP 157
developed, and these rates are used to discount the floating leg payments. The present values of fixed 
and floating legs, thus, obtained are equated, and the rate that makes them equal is computed. This 
rate will be base rate for pricing the swap on which markup may be made to offer it to the market. 
A brief note on computation of zero or spot yields, and the implied forward yields is furnished here 
for ready reference. (The Yield to Maturity or YTM has a drawback in that it assumes that future 
cash flows will be invested at the same rate ‘y’ – the YTM itself, which is a wrong assumption for 
no one knows what the interest rates are likely to be in future).
If we are able to eliminate the intermediary cash flows by some means, then there will be no 
reinvestment risk and, hence, the assumption of same rate for future periods can also be done away 
with. This may be achieved by arriving at the Zero rates (also known as Spot Rate) by a mathematical 
process known as Boot Strapping. This process eliminates intermediary cash flows and, hence, the 
wrong assumption of the same rate for reinvestment as well.
12.2.1 Example of an Overnight Index Swap
Let us say, Paradise Bank has entered into an OIS on a notional principal of `10 crores, and has 
agreed to receive Mibor overnight floating rate for a fixed payment of 8% on the notional principal. 
The swap was entered into on 1 April 2002, and was to commence on 2 April 2002 and run for a 
period of 7 days. The amount payable by Paradise Bank on the floating rate will be calculated on 
the notional principal every day at the respective Mibor rate, and will be compounded on a daily 
basis as shown below (Please note the rate for Saturday and Sunday are the same, as the market is 
closed on Sundays). The fixed leg interest payment is worked in the normal way for 7 days at 8%, 
and the difference between the two is the amount Paradise Bank has to pay or receive on maturity. 
It may be noted that the interest payments are not exchanged on a daily basis, but are exchanged 
only on maturity.
Sr. No. Dates Notional Principal Mibor ACCINT
1. 2.4.2013 (Tue) 10,00,00,000 7.75% 21232
2. 3.4.2013 (Wed) 10,00,21,232 8.15% 22333
3. 4.4.2013 (Thu) 10,00,43,565 8.12% 22256
4. 5.4.2013 (Fri) 10,00,66,0421 7.95% 21795
5. 6.4.2013 (Sat)
6. 7.4.2013 (Sun) 10,00,87,836 7.98% 43764
7. 8.4.2013 (Mon) 10,01,31,600 8.15% 22358
Interest on fixed LEG = 10CR × 0.08 × 7/365 = 153424
Paradise Bank to receive 153738 – 153424 = INR 314 (net)
Treasury Management.indb 157 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
158 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
12.3 TYPES OF INTEREST RATE SWAPS
1. A Plain Vanilla Swap: This is the simplest form of Interest rate swaps, where a fixed rate is 
exchanged for a floating rate or vice versa on a given notional principal at pre-agreed intervals 
during the life of the contract.
2. A Basis Swap: In a floating to floating swap, it is possible to exchange the floating rates based 
on different benchmark rates. For example, we may agree to exchange 3m Mibor for 91 days 
T Bills rate. Such a swap is called a Basis Swap.
3. An Amortizing swap: As the name suggests, swaps that provide for reduction in notional 
principal amount corresponding to the amortization of a loan, are called amortizing swaps.
4. Step-up Swap: This is the opposite of an amortizing swap. In this variety the notional principal 
increases as per a pre-agreed schedule.
5. Extendable Swap: When one of the counter parties has the right to extend the maturity of the 
swap beyond its original life, the swap is said to be an extendable swap.
6. Delayed start swaps/Deferred swaps/Forward swaps: When it is agreed between the counter 
parties that the swap will come into effect on a future date, it is termed as a delayed start swap 
or deferred swap or a forward swap.
7. Differential Swaps: Interest rate swaps which are structured in such a way that one leg of 
the swap provides for payment of interest at a rate pertaining to a currency other than the 
currency of the underlying principal amount. The other leg provides for payment of interest 
at the rate and currency of the underlying principal. For example, a corporate can choose to 
enter into a differential swap by which it can bind itself to pay 3m USD Libor on a principal 
of `100 crores, and receive 12% fixed in the Indian currency. The interest on both the legs 
will be computed on the notional principal of `100 crores. The swap is thus a combination 
of currency and plain interest rate swaps. There is no currency risk in this arrangement.
12.4 SALIENT FEATURES OF RBI GUIDELINES ON IRS
1. Scheduled commercial banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks), Primary Dealers, and all 
India Financial Institutions are free to undertake IRS as a product for their own balance sheet 
management and for market making.
2. They may also offer these products to corporates for hedging their own balance sheet 
exposures.
3. Participants should ensure adequate infrastructure, and risk management systems before 
venturing into market making activities.
4. The Bench Mark rate should necessarily evolve on its own in the market and require market 
acceptance.
5. The parties are free to use any domestic money or debt market rate as benchmark rate 
provided the methodology of computing the rate is objective, transparent, and mutually 
acceptable.
6. There is no restriction on the minimum or maximum size of notional principal amounts. Size 
norms are to emerge in the market with the development of the market.
7. There is no restriction on the tenor.
8. Banks, Financial Institutions, and Primary Dealers are required to maintain capital for FRAs 
and IRS.
Treasury Management.indb 158 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
SWAP 159
9. Transactions for hedging and market making purposes should be recorded separately. Positions on 
account of market making activities should be marked to market at least at fortnightly intervals. 
Transactions entered into for hedging purposes should be accounted for on accrual basis.
10. Participants can consider using ISDA standard documentation with suitable modifications for 
transactions in FRAs and IRS.
11. Participants are required to report their operations in FRAs and IRS on a fortnightly basis to 
Monetary Policy Department of RBI.
12. Capital adequacy for banks and financial institutions for undertaking FRAs and IRS transactions 
shall be calculated as follows:
 All new INR Mumbai Inter Bank Offer Rate (MIBOR) – Overnight Index Swap (OIS) contracts 
executed from April 1, 2013 onwards are standardized in terms of minimum notional principal 
amount, tenors, trading hours, settlement calculations, etc.
The notional principal will be multiplied by a conversion factor as per the table below:
For original maturities less than a year 0.5%
For original maturities one year and less than two years 1.00%
For each additional year 1.00%
The product thus obtained shall be assigned risk weightage at 20% for banks and financial 
institutions and at 100% for others (except governments).
On the resultant sum, the required capital adequacy of 9% will have to be maintained.
13. All Interest Rate Swaps should be marked to market for disclosure in financial statements. 
If used as a hedge, it must be stated so at the time of initiating the swap and its tenor should 
not exceed that of the underlying. It must be subjected to validation of hedge effectiveness 
but need not be marked to market. If a hedge swap becomes naked (when the underlying no 
longer exists in the books), it must be treated as a trading swap.
Salient Points
1. An interest rate swap can be construed as a series of FRAs.
2. The notional principal is not exchanged between the counterparties in an FRA and IRS.
3. An Interest Rate Swap is a contract between two parties, whereby, they agree to exchange a 
stream of interest payments on a notional principal for a given period at pre-agreed intervals 
of time.
4. Buying an IRS means choosing to pay Fixed and receive Floating.
5. Prices of IRS are quoted in terms of the fixed leg.
6. Pricing of IRS is based on the present value of fixed rate cash flows, and floating rate cash flows.
Let Us Sum Up
In financial markets, the two parties to a swap transaction contract to exchange cash flows. The 
different types of swaps include Principal + Interest swap, Principal only swaps (POS), Coupon 
Treasury Management.indb 159 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
160 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
only swap (COS). OIS is a popular swap. Plain vanilla swap, Basis swap, Amortizing swap, Step-up 
swap, Extendable swap, Delayed start swap, Differential swap are examples of interest rate swaps. 
The guidelines of RBI on IRS/FRA include fortnightly reporting to RBI, use of ISDA by market 
participants and guidelines for capital adequacy requirements.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is a currency swap?
(a) Exchange of one currency for another currency at pre-agreed prices.
(b) Exchange of ISDA between two counterparties.
(c) Exchange of information on fake currencies between two countries.
(d) Purchase of one currency and sale of another currency with a lag.
2. What is a basis swap?
(a) Exchange of periodical interest payments under a pre-determined mechanism.
(b) Where cash flows on both the legs of the swap are referenced to different floating rates.
(c) Where cash flows on both the legs of the swap are referenced to LIBOR.
(d) Where cash flows on both the legs of the swap are based on financial soundness of 
counterparties.
3. What is the only limitation of MIFOR?
(a) It is not normally allowed by RBI.
(b) It is the only swap with no exchange of cash flows.
(c) MIFOR is permitted between banks only.
(d) MIFOR is permitted between customers only.
4. What is the essential principle under ‘amortization swaps’?
(a) Exchange of cash flows takes place after the maturity period of swap.
(b) The formula for exchange can be altered during the life of swap.
(c) No exchange of cash flows is involved.
(d) Provides for reduction in notional principal amount corresponding to the amortization 
of a loan.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 160 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
OPTIONS
STRUCTURE
13.1 Introduction
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
13
Treasury Management.indb 161 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
162 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
13.1 INTRODUCTION
An option is a contract, which gives the buyer (holder) the right, but not the obligation, to buy or 
sell specified quantity of the underlying assets, at a specific (strike) price on or before a specified 
time (expiration date). The underlying may be physical commodities, like wheat/rice/cotton/gold/
oil or financial instruments like equity stocks/stock index/bonds, etc. Option buyer gets the privilege 
to legally back out from a contract.
13.1.1 Important Terminology
Underlying: The specific security/asset/index on which an options contract is based.
Option Premium: Premium is the price paid by the buyer to the seller to acquire the right to buy 
or sell.
Strike Price or Exercise Price: The strike or exercise price of an option is the specified/predetermined price of the underlying asset, at which the same can be bought or sold if the option buyer 
exercises his right to buy/sell on or before the expiration day. The buyer of the Option can choose 
the Strike Price he wants, according to which the premium will change.
Expiration date: The date on which the option expires is known as Expiration date. On Expiration 
date, either the option is exercised, or it expires worthless.
Exercise Date: is the date on which the option is actually exercised. In case of European Options, 
the exercise date is same as the expiration date while in case of American options, the options 
contract may be exercised any day between the purchase of the contract and its expiration date (see 
European/American Option).
Open Interest: The total number of options contracts outstanding in the market at any given point 
of time.
Option Holder: is the one who buys an option which can be a call or a put option. He enjoys the 
right to buy or sell the underlying asset at a specified price, on or before specified time. His upside 
potential is unlimited, while losses are limited to the Premium paid by him to the option writer. He 
has a LONG position in the option.
Option seller/writer: is the one who is obligated to buy from the option holder (in case of put 
option) or to sell to the option holder (in case of call option), the underlying asset in case the buyer 
of the option decides to exercise his option. His profits are limited to the premium received from 
the buyer, while his downside is unlimited. He has a SHORT position in the option.
Option Class: All listed options of a particular type (i.e., call or put) on a particular underlying 
instrument, e.g., all Sensex Call Options, (or) all Sensex Put Options.
Option Series: An option series consists of all the options of a given class with the same expiration 
date and strike price.
E.g., BSXCMAY3600 is an options series, which includes all Sensex Call options that are traded 
with Strike Price of 3600, and expiry in May.
Treasury Management.indb 162 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
OPTIONS 163
(BSX Stands for BSE Sensex (underlying index), C is for Call Option, May is the expiry date, and 
strike Price is 3600).
13.1.2 European & American Style of Options
An American style option is the one, which can be exercised by the buyer on or before the expiration 
date, i.e. anytime between the day of purchase of the option and the day of its expiry. The European 
kind of option is the one, which can be exercised by the buyer on the expiration day only, and not 
any time before that.
13.1.3 Call Options
A call option gives the holder (buyer/one who is long call); the right to buy specified quantity of the 
underlying asset at the strike price, on or before expiration date. The seller or writer of the option 
(one who is short call), however, has the obligation to sell the underlying asset, if the buyer of the 
call option decides to exercise his option to buy.
Example: An investor buys one European call option on Infosys at the strike price of `3500 paying a 
premium of `100. If the market price of Infosys on the day of expiry is more than `3500, the option 
will be exercised. The buyer of the option will earn profits once the share price crosses `3600 (Strike 
Price + Premium, i.e., 3500 + 100). Suppose stock price is `3800, the option will be exercised and 
the investor will buy 1 share of Infosys from the seller of the option at `3500 and sell it in the market 
at `3800, making a profit of `200 {(Spot price – Strike price) – Premium}.
In another scenario, if at the time of expiry, stock price falls below `3500, say, suppose it touches 
`3000, the buyer of the call option will choose not to exercise his option. In this case, the buyer of 
the option loses the premium (`100) paid, which shall be the revenue earned by the seller (Writer 
of the option) of the call option.
13.1.4 Put Options
A Put option gives the holder (buyer/one who is long Put), the right to sell specified quantity of the 
underlying asset at the strike price on or before expiry date. The seller of the put option (one who 
is short Put), however, has the obligation to buy the underlying asset at the strike price, if the buyer 
decides to exercise his option to sell. Example: An investor buys one European Put option on Reliance 
at the strike price of `300 and pays a premium of `25. If the market price of Reliance, on the day of 
expiry is less than `300, the option can be exercised as it is, ‘in the money’. The investor’s Breakeven 
point is `275 (Strike Price – premium paid), i.e., investor will earn profits if the market falls below 
275. Suppose stock price is `260, the buyer of the Put option immediately buys Reliance share in 
the market at `260 and exercises his option of selling the Reliance share at `300 to the option writer, 
thus, making a net profit of `15 {(Strike price – Spot Price) – Premium paid}.
In another scenario, if at the time of expiry, market price of Reliance is `320, the buyer of the 
Put option will choose not to exercise his option to sell as he can sell in the market at a higher rate. 
Treasury Management.indb 163 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
164 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
In this case the investor loses the premium paid (i.e., `25), which shall be the revenue earned by 
the seller of the Put option.
Call Options Put Options
Option buyer or option 
holder
Buys the right to buy the
underlying asset at the
specified price.
Buys the right to sell the underlying asset at the specified price.
Option seller or option 
writer
Has the obligation to sell the 
underlying asset (to the option 
holder) at the specified price.
Has the obligation to buy the 
underlying asset (from the option 
holder) at the specified price.
The significant differences in Futures and Options are as under:
Futures are agreements/contracts to buy or sell specified quantity of the underlying assets at a price 
agreed upon by the buyer and seller, on or before a specified time. Both the buyer and seller are 
obligated to buy/sell the underlying asset. In case of options the buyer enjoys the right, and not the 
obligation, to buy or sell the underlying asset.
Futures Contracts have symmetric risk profile for both the buyer as well as the seller, whereas options 
have asymmetric risk profile. In case of Options, for a buyer (or holder of the option), the downside 
is limited to the premium (option price) he has paid, while the profits may be unlimited. For a seller 
or writer of an option, however, the downside is unlimited while profits are limited to the premium 
he has received from the buyer.
The Futures contracts prices are affected mainly by the prices of the underlying asset. The prices 
of options are, however, affected by prices of the underlying asset, time remaining for expiry of the 
contract, and volatility of the underlying asset.
It costs nothing to enter into a futures contract, whereas there is a cost for entering into an options 
contract, termed as Premium.
‘In the Money’, ‘At the Money’, and ‘Out of the money’ Options.
An option is said to be, ‘at-the-money’, when the option’s strike price is equal to the underlying 
asset’s cash market price. This is true for both puts and calls. A call option is said to be in-the-money 
when the strike price of the option is less than the underlying asset’s cash market price. For example, 
a Sensex call option with strike price of 3900 is, ‘in-the-money’, when the spot Sensex is at 4100, 
as the call option has value in relation to the current index number. The call holder has the right to 
buy a Sensex at 3900, no matter how much the spot market price has risen. And with the current 
price at 4100, a profit can be made by selling Sensex at this higher price.
On the other hand, a call option is out-of-the-money when the strike price is greater than the 
underlying asset’s cash market price. Using the earlier example of Sensex call option, if the Sensex 
falls to 3700, the call option no longer has positive exercise value. The call holder will not exercise 
the option to buy Sensex at 3900 when the current price is at 3700.
A put option is in-the-money when the strike price of the option is greater than the spot price of the 
underlying asset. For example, a Sensex put at a strike of 4400 is in-the-money when the Sensex is 
Treasury Management.indb 164 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
OPTIONS 165
at 4100. When this is the case, the put option has value, because the put holder can sell the Sensex 
at 4400, an amount greater than the current Sensex of 4100. Likewise, a put option is out-of-themoney when the strike price is less than the spot price of underlying asset. In the above example, 
the buyer of Sensex put option won’t exercise the option when the spot is at 4800. The put no longer 
has positive exercise value. Options are said to be deep in-the-money (or deep out-of-the-money), 
if the exercise price is at significant variance with the underlying asset price.
Call Options Put Options
In-the-money Strike price < Spot price of 
underlying asset
Strike price > Spot price of 
underlying asset
At-the-money Strike price = Spot price of 
underlying asset
Strike price = Spot price of 
underlying asset
Out-of-the-money Strike price > Spot price of 
underlying asset
Strike price < Spot price of 
underlying asset
13.1.5 Covered and Naked Calls
A call option position that is covered by an opposite position in the underlying instrument (for 
example, shares, commodities, etc.), is called a covered call. Writing covered calls involves writing 
call options, when the shares that might have to be delivered (if option holder exercises his right to 
buy), are already owned.
Eg. A writer writes a call on Reliance, and at the same time holds shares of Reliance so that if the 
call is exercised by the buyer, he can deliver the stock.
Covered calls are far less risky than naked calls (where there is no opposite position in the underlying), 
since the worst that can happen is that the investor is required to sell shares already owned, below their 
market value on expiration date of the option written by him. When a physical delivery uncovered/
naked call is assigned an exercise, the writer will have to purchase the underlying asset to meet his 
call obligation, and his loss will be the excess of the purchase price over the exercise price of the call 
reduced by the premium received for writing the call. However, Option writers use delta hedging 
techniques to limit their downside on exercise of options written by them.
13.1.6 Intrinsic Value of an Option
The intrinsic value of an option is defined as the amount by which an option is in-the-money, or the 
immediate exercise value of the option when the underlying position is marked-to-market. For a call 
option: Intrinsic Value = Spot Price – Strike Price, For a put option: Intrinsic Value = Strike Price - 
Spot Price. The intrinsic value of an option must be a positive number or zero, it can’t be negative. 
For a call option, the strike price must be less than the price of the underlying asset for the call to 
have an intrinsic value greater than zero. For a put option, the strike price must be greater than the 
underlying asset price for it to have intrinsic value.
TIME VALUE of an option (Extrinsic) is the premium a rational investor would pay over its current 
intrinsic value based on the probability the option will increase in value before expiry. Mathematically, 
Time Value = Option Premium – Intrinsic Value.
Treasury Management.indb 165 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
166 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Factors that affect the value of an option (premium).
There are two types of factors that affect the value of the option premium:
Quantifiable Factors:
1. underlying stock price,
2. the strike price of the option,
3. the volatility of the underlying stock,
4. the time to expiration, and
5. the risk free interest rate.
Non-Quantifiable Factors:
1. Market participants’ varying estimates of the underlying asset’s future volatility.
2. Individuals’ varying estimates of future performance of the underlying asset, based on 
fundamental or technical analysis.
3. The effect of supply and demand – both in the options marketplace and in the market for the 
underlying asset.
4. The ‘depth’ of the market for that option – the number of transactions and the contract’s 
trading volume on any given day.
13.1.7 Different Pricing Models for Options
The theoretical option pricing models are used by option traders for calculating the fair value of 
an option on the basis of the earlier mentioned influencing factors. An option pricing model assists 
the trader in keeping the prices of calls and puts in proper numerical relationship to each other, and 
helps the trader make bids and offers quickly.
The two most popular option pricing models are:
Black Scholes Model: which assumes that percentage change in the price of underlying follows a 
normal distribution.
Binomial Model: which assumes that percentage change in price of the underlying follows a binomial 
distribution.
Options Premium is not fixed by the Exchange. The fair value/theoretical price of an option can 
be known with the help of pricing models, and then depending on market conditions the price is 
determined by competitive bids and offers in the trading environment. An option’s premium/price 
is the sum of Intrinsic value and Time Value (explained earlier). If the price of the underlying stock 
is held constant, the intrinsic value portion of an option premium will remain constant as well. 
Therefore, any change in the price of the option will be entirely due to a change in the option’s time 
value. The time value component of the option premium can change in response to a change in the 
volatility of the underlying, the time of expiry, interest rate fluctuations, dividend payments, and to 
the immediate effect of supply and demand for both the underlying and its option.
Treasury Management.indb 166 6/19/2018 6:24:04 PM
OPTIONS 167
Some general postulates on Option pricing are given below.
1. Longer the tenor of the expiry date, higher will be the option premium.
2. Out of the Money options will command lower premium than In The Money contracts.
3. Higher the volatility of the underlying, higher will be the option premium.
4. Interest rate change has least effect on option premium.
5. Option Seller (Writer) is not seller of underlying asset, he is underwriter of price risk on 
underlying asset.
13.1.8 Option Greeks
The price of an Option depends on certain factors like price and volatility of the underlying, time 
of expiry, etc. The option Greeks are the tools that measure the sensitivity of the option price to the 
above mentioned factors. They are often used by professional traders for trading and managing the 
risk of large positions in options and stocks. These Option Greeks are:
Delta: is the option Greek that measures the estimated change in option premium/price for a change 
in the price of the underlying.
Gamma: measures the estimated change in the Delta of an option for a change in the price of the 
underlying.
Vega: measures the estimated change in the option price for a change in the volatility of the underlying.
Theta: measures the estimated change in the option price for a change in the time to option expiry. 
This is also referred to as “Time Decay”.
Rho: measures the estimated change in the option price for a change in the risk free interest rates.
Players in the Options Market:
Banks, Developmental institutions, Mutual Funds, Domestic and Foreign Institutional Investors, 
Brokers and Retail Participants are the likely players in the Options Market.
13.1.9 Stock Index Options
The Stock Index Options are options where the underlying asset is a Stock Index for, e.g., Options 
on S&P 500 Index/Options on BSE Sensex, etc. Index Options were first introduced by Chicago 
Board of Options Exchange (CBOE) in 1983 on its Index ‘S&P 100’. As different from options on 
individual stocks, index options give an investor the right to buy or sell the value of an index which 
represents group of stocks.
Uses of Index Options
Index options enable investors to gain exposure to a broad market, with one trading decision, and 
frequently with one transaction. To obtain the same level of diversification using individual stocks 
or individual equity options, numerous decisions and trades would be necessary. Since, broad 
Treasury Management.indb 167 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
168 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
exposure can be gained with one trade, transaction cost is also reduced by using Index Options. As 
the percentage of the underlying value, premiums of index options are usually lower than those of 
equity options as underlying equity prices are more volatile than the Index.
Index Options are effective enough to appeal to a broad spectrum of users, from conservative 
investors to more aggressive stock market traders. Individual investors might wish to capitalize on 
market opinions (bullish, bearish or neutral), by acting on their views of the broad market or one of 
its many sectors. The more sophisticated market professionals might find the variety of index option 
contracts as excellent tools for enhancing market timing decisions, and adjusting asset mixes for 
asset allocation. To a market professional, managing the risk associated with large equity positions 
may mean using index options to either reduce their risk or to increase market exposure.
13.1.10 Options on Individual stocks
Options contracts where the underlying asset is an equity stock, are termed as Options on stocks. 
They are mostly American style options cash settled or settled by physical delivery. Prices are 
normally quoted in terms of the premium per share, although each contract is invariably for a larger 
number of shares, e.g., 100.
13.1.11 Exotic Options
Derivatives with more complicated payoffs than the standard European or American calls and puts 
are referred to as Exotic Options. Some of the examples of exotic options are as under:
Barrier Options: where the payoff depends on whether the underlying asset’s price reaches a certain 
level during a certain period of time. CAPS traded on CBOE (traded on the S&P 100 and S&P 500) 
are examples of Barrier Options where the pay-out is capped so that it cannot exceed $30. A Call CAP 
is automatically exercised on a day when the index closes more than $30 above the strike price. A put 
CAP is automatically exercised on a day when the index closes more than $30 below the cap level.
Binary Options: are options with discontinuous payoffs. A simple example would be an option 
which pays off, if price of an Infosys share ends up above the strike price of, say, `4000 and pays 
off nothing if it ends up below the strike. The option holder is “Knocked Off” at such events. Thus 
these options are also called Knock off and Knock Ins.
Collars: If a trader is Long Call in a stock at strike price “x” and Short Put in same stock for same 
expiry at strike price “x+10”, the trader ends up buying the stock at x or x+10, irrespective of the 
price of the stock on expiry date, as either one of the options get exercised. This is called a “Collar”.
Straddles: Holding a PUT option and CALL option at same strike price and expiry date on an 
underlying is a “Straddle”. The downside is the premium paid for both the options, while the upside 
is unlimited, as either one of the options can be exercised If the stock price is close to the strike 
price at expiration of the options, the straddle leads to a loss. However, if there is a sufficiently large 
move in either direction, a significant profit will result. This is useful when the holder anticipates 
wide swings in the price of the underlying but does not know in which direction the move will be. 
Treasury Management.indb 168 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
OPTIONS 169
Illustratively, Call option on ABC at strike price 60 is purchased paying a premium of `4. Put option 
on ABC at same strike price 60 is purchased paying a premium, say `4. The total premium cost to 
the buyer is `8. If stock price on expiry touches 80, he exercises the call option at 60 and books a 
profit of 80 – 60 – 8 = 12. If stock price were to close at 25, he exercises the Put option at 60 and 
books a profit of 60 – 25 – 8 = 27.
Treasury Management.indb 169 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
170 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
13.1.12 The Buyer and Seller of an Option
The buyer of an Option is normally the one who seeks protection against risk, whereas the seller 
takes over his risk at a price which is called the Premium on the Option. The option buyer is under 
no obligation to buy (call) or sell (put) the underlying, whereas the option seller is obliged to sell or 
buy the underlying depending upon whether it is a call or put respectively sold by him. The buyer 
of an option enjoys unlimited profit potential during the life of the option, and the maximum loss 
he incurs is limited to the premium he has paid. The seller of an option has maximum loss potential 
during the life of the option, and his profit is limited to the premium he has received.
13.1.13 The Option Profiles
Let us now analyze the profit potential of a buyer and seller of a Call Option. Let us say, we have 
bought a call option on a bond at a strike price of `99. The current market price of the bond, say, 
is `99 (at-the-money call). The premium paid for the option is `5, and the maturity is 3 months, 
American Style (meaning thereby, that it can be exercised on any working day within these 3 months). 
The payoff profile will be dependent on the movement in the price of the bond which is underlying 
here. As the price of the underlying increases from 99 to, say, 100, 101, 102, 103, etc., we as the 
buyer of the option would not, in the normal circumstances, exercise this option till the price of the 
bond reaches a minimum of 104 (our breakeven price), or above as we have paid a premium of `5.
The price movement beyond 104 can be to any level, say, even 110 or so, in which case our profit 
potential is to the extent of the maximum price of the bond reached during this period of three 
months. On the other hand, if the price falls from 99 to 98, 97, 96, etc. we would not exercise the 
option because we might as well buy the underlying bond in the market at a lower price than our 
strike price. Our option in this case, would be of no value and hence we would lose our premium 
of `5. The reverse is true in the case of the seller of this option. His profit potential is limited to 
`5 which he has received as premium, and his loss is to the extent of maximum price of the bond 
reached during this period of three months.
Treasury Management.indb 170 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
OPTIONS 171
13.1.14 Value of an Option
The value of an option is made up of two components, viz., its Intrinsic Value and Time or Extrinsic 
Value. The intrinsic value of an Option is the difference between its strike price and the current 
market price. For example, if the strike price of a call option is `100, and the current market price is 
`102, its intrinsic value is `2 (102–100). As this call is an in-the-money option, its intrinsic value is 
positive. If the strike price is equal to the current market price, i.e., `102, its intrinsic value is zero 
(102–102), and if the strike price is more than the current market price, the intrinsic value though 
negative, will be reckoned as zero, as it has no intrinsic value. The reverse will be true of a Put 
option. Thus it is easy to determine the intrinsic value of an option.
The time value or extrinsic value of an option is difficult to determine. It depends basically upon 
the volatility of the price movements of the underlying instrument. The probability that an option 
will be exercised, plays a key role while determining the value of the option. Quite a few pricing 
models have been designed by financial engineers of which the Black & Scholes and the Binomial 
model are quite popular. Time Value = Premium – Intrinsic value.
13.1.15 Put Call Parity
The simultaneous purchase of a call and sale of a Put option for the same strike price (other than at 
the money strikes), can result in two types of arbitrages, viz., the Conversion arbitrage and Reversal 
arbitrage. Such a situation will not be allowed to be exploited by the market participants. The 
conversion arbitrage creates a synthetic short position in the underlying asset by buying the same 
in the cash market and then selling a Call and buying a Put on it. The Reversal arbitrage creates a 
synthetic long position on the underlying by selling it in the cash market, and then buying a call and 
selling a put at the same strike. These two arbitrages can be eliminated if the difference between 
the strike price and the spot price of the underlying is made equal to the difference between the call 
premium and the put premium. This phenomenon is called Put Call Parity.
Example: Let us say, we buy the underlying asset at `100 in the cash market. We also sell an 
out of the money call at a strike of `105, and earn a premium of `5. Simultaneously, we also buy 
an in the money American put at `105 by paying a premium of `8. The net outflow on account 
of the two options is (–8 + 5 = –3) However, we may immediately exercise our Put to sell the 
underlying at `105, and make a profit of `5 (`105 – 100). Thus, our net profit is `2 (5 – 3). This 
is a clear arbitrage position on account of the fact that the difference between the option premia, 
and the difference between the strike and spot prices are not equal. If they are equal, such an 
arbitrage is not possible.
13.1.16 Interest Rate Options
Interest Rate options are fundamentally of two types, the Cap and the Floor. A Cap is an interest 
rate option in which the buyer of the option, with the intention of locking himself to a ceiling in 
interest costs for his borrowing, reserves the right to receive the difference in interest rate on a 
notional principal in case the interest rate on the underlying borrowing goes higher than the ceiling 
Treasury Management.indb 171 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
172 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
he has chosen at pre-agreed periodic intervals for a given time maturity. To illustrate, let us say we 
have issued a bond for `100 crore and raised money in the market at a floating rate of 6 Mibor + 
50 basis points. And let us assume, that we have invested the money at fixed rate of 8%. We have 
also agreed to pay the investors in our bond interest at 6 monthly intervals, and the maturity of the 
bond is say 5 years. This means that we have an interest rate risk for the next 5 years in case the 6m 
Mibor goes higher. If the 6m Mibor is currently 5%, our return is 8 – 5.5 = 2.5%. However, if 6m 
Mibor were to go higher at future points of time, our return would go down below 2.5% till the 6m 
MIBOR interest rate reaches 7.5%, when we would just break even. Beyond 7.5% level in Mibor, 
we will make a negative spread. In order to eliminate this risk we may buy a CAP at, say, 7.0%. 
This means that we are sure of getting a spread of at least 0.5% in the above structure, and any 
movement in 6m Mibor beyond 7% will result in our being compensated by the seller of the CAP. 
The 6m Mibor rate is prevailing on each of the 6 monthly coupon payment dates, and if it is higher 
than 7%, the difference on the notional principal will be paid by the seller of the CAP. However, if 
the 6m Mibor is less than 7%, we choose not to exercise the option and hence we need not pay the 
seller the difference as is obtained in an FRA or an IRS. This is the major difference.
Some of the salient features of an options contract are given below:
Separation of liquidity from return exposure
Allows the option purchaser to acquire or shed exposure to the underlying asset without the necessity 
to purchase or sell the asset itself.
Leverage
The option contract is also inherently leveraged in that the full face value of the underlying asset is 
controlled through the payment of a premium that represents a percentage of the face value.
Asymmetric return profile
The key element of the option contract is the ability of an option buyer to get asymmetric exposure 
to price fluctuations in the underlying asset.
Off balance sheet
The option contract is off balance sheet to the parties entering the transaction.
Some of the types of options are listed as follows:
– Vanilla
 European: Exercisable only on the Expiry Date.
 Call: An option to buy an asset for a certain price by a certain date.
 Put: An option to sell an asset for a certain price by a certain date.
– Exotic
 American: Exercisable anytime during the life of the Option up to Expiry Date.
 Bermudan: Choice from multiple exercise date.
Treasury Management.indb 172 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
OPTIONS 173
 Knock-out barrier: The option ceases to exist if the Knock out level is seen. This can be 
either European or American.
Some of the uses/applications of options are listed below:
Hedging
The separation of cash and return facilitates hedging with option contracts. Hedging involves options 
to provide protection to the party seeking to hedge from unfavorable asset price movements while 
allowing continued participation in favourable price movements.
Structured Protection
The capacity to adjust the strike price of the option enables the exact nature of risk hedged to be 
structured in accordance with the price expectations.
Speculation: Same as hedging
‘The separation of cash and return facilitates hedging with option contracts.’
Return Enhancement
The sale of options against an underlying asset can be used to enhance the return on the 
underlying holding of the asset. The premium earned on the option contracts sold, if the 
option expires without being exercised, results in reducing the holding price of the asset in 
option writer’s book.
Option strategies
The Call and Put options can be employed either individually, or in combination, to effectively hedge 
and trade in options. Let us look at some of the basic options strategies.
Long call
When the prospective buyer of an underlying instrument is very bullish on its price movements, he 
buys a call option. As we have seen earlier, in the payoff profile of a simple call option, the buyer of 
a call option enjoys unlimited profit potential, but suffers loss limited to the premium paid.
Short call
A short call position or selling a call option on the underlying instrument is resorted to when the 
value of the underlying is likely to remain stable, or decreases. If the value remains stable, the option 
may not be exercised by the buyer and, hence, the premium received is a profit.
Treasury Management.indb 173 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
174 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Ratio range forward
These are a variety of Range Forward, where the principal amounts of the call and put are different. 
Buyer of Ratio Range Forward shares profit with the writer in a pre-determined ratio, if the value 
of the underlying moves above the targeted level.
A covered call
At times, when the market price movements are slightly bullish, but moderate, right to writing or 
selling a call option on the owned underlying instrument can be resorted to in order to earn extra 
income. This strategy is called writing a covered call. It must be borne in mind that as the name 
suggests, this strategy should not be employed unless the underlying is owned by the option seller 
as otherwise it would amount to short selling the underlying, and might result in huge losses in case 
the call were exercised. The advantage of this strategy is that it earns some upfront premium for 
the writer. The disadvantage arises if the call were exercised on account of unexpected higher price 
movements of the underlying, in which case the appreciation in the value of underlying will be lost 
to the option writer, and his profit will be limited to the premium he has received upfront.
Let Us Sum Up
This chapter deals with various money market instruments, including Inter Bank Participation 
Certificate and collateralized borrowing and lending obligation (CBLO), Treasury bills and repos. 
Repo pricing is discussed. The concepts of fixed and floating rates of interest, simple and compound 
rate of interest, yield, YTM, and premium and discount have been explained. Day count conventions 
have been explained. Fixed income securities have also been discussed in detail. Equity shares and 
preference shares, ECBs have also been discussed. The salient features of GDR, ADR and IDR 
have been given.
Forex markets and forex products are also discussed. An overview of derivatives is provided covering 
futures, forward contracts, Forward rate agreements, IRS, Currency swap, OIS. A brief introduction 
to options is given.
Keywords
IBPCs, repo, FRAs, Options, American and European varieties, futures, delta, gama, vega, theta, 
rho, Mibor, OIS
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Why is Repo sometimes called a ready forward transaction?
(a) It is a means of funding by selling a security held on a spot (ready) basis, and repurchasing 
the same on a forward basis.
(b) The delivery of funds is done on a future date.
Treasury Management.indb 174 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
OPTIONS 175
(c) Repo rates are quoted forward.
(d) Ready repo is offset by future reverse repo.
2. YTM is the discount rate that equates the present value of all cash flows to what?
(a) The face value of the security.
(b) The present market price of the security.
(c) The total coupon payments on the security.
(d) The maturity value of the security.
3. In India, what is the limit of redemption period for preference shares in case of companies 
not dealing with infrastructure projects?
(a) 10 years.
(b) 5 years.
(c) 20 years.
(d) 25 years.
4. What does, in options, delta measure for a change in the price of the underlying?
(a) It gives the total number of options in the market.
(b) It measures the total open interest in the market.
(c) It measures the uncovered portion of the underlying.
(d) It measures the estimated change in option premium/price.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 175 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
 FIXED INCOME
SECURITIES, DURATION 
AND CONVEXITY
STRUCTURE
14.0 Objectives
14.1 Time Value of Money
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
14
Treasury Management.indb 176 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 177
14.0 OBJECTIVES
After studying this section, you will be able to:
l Define the concept of Time Value of Money.
l Apply compounding and discounting factors to find the present and future value of a single 
cash flow as well as multiple cash flows.
l Define a fixed income security and its major types.
l Evaluate the fixed income security and identify the factors that affect its price.
l Define the various properties of bonds (fixed income securities).
l Calculate the price of a fixed income security given the various parameters.
l Define and apply the concepts of Duration, Modified Duration, and Convexity to understand 
the price sensitivity of a fixed income security when interest rate changes in the market.
l Define and apply the concepts of different types of yields associated with a fixed income 
security.
l Identify the major weakness of yield to maturity, and calculate the zero coupon and implied 
forward rates.
14.1 TIME VALUE OF MONEY
As mentioned in section 2, Money has time value. Time value is best understood when one says 
‘I would prefer a Rupee paid to me today rather than tomorrow’. The reasons for ready possession 
of money rather than at a future date are:
(a) One would prefer not to be affected by the erosion in value of their money on account of 
inflation.
(b) One would like to be compensated for the sacrifice of postponing their present consumption 
to a future date.
(c) Ready possession of money is the highest form of liquidity.
(d) One would like to invest the money, and it would earn interest.
The amount payable (A) on an initial investment (P) at a rate of interest (r) compounded annually 
for a period of (n) years is given by the formula:
A = P (1 + r)n
The amount (A) receivable at the end of ‘n’ years is the future value of the initial principal invested, 
viz., (P). If one initially invests `1 at rate ‘r’ for a period of ‘n’ years, the future value of this 
investment will be (1 + r)n. This factor (1 + r)n is known as the compounding factor, or the future 
value factor of an initial investment.
If the compounding is done at half yearly intervals, the above formula would stand modified as:
A = P (1 + r/2)2n
In general, if the No. of compounding intervals is say ‘m’ then,
A = P (1 + r/m)mn
Treasury Management.indb 177 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
178 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
On the other hand, if one has to receive Re. 1 at the end of ‘n’ years at a rate of ‘r’, the initial amount 
to be invested (P) is given by the equation:
P = 
1
(1 + r)
n
Thus, the present value of an amount of `1 receivable at the end of ‘n’ years at the rate of ‘r’ is 
arrived at by the above equation where the factor 1/(1 + r)n is known as the discounting factor or 
the present value factor of an amount receivable at a future point of time.
These factors help us to find the present or future value of a single cash flow. However, in business 
we come across multiple cash flows whose present and future values are to be computed for various 
purposes. The simplest form of a multiple cash flow is an Annuity. An annuity is nothing but a series 
of an identical amount of payment over a period of time at regular intervals. A Recurring Deposit 
Account with a bank is a perfect example of an Annuity.
Annuities are of two types, viz., Ordinary Annuity and Annuity Due.
In an ordinary Annuity, the payments are made at the end of the specified intervals of time. For 
example, if I receive `1000 at the end of each month for the next 5 years, the cash flow structure is 
an Ordinary annuity. The present value of an ordinary annuity can be found by the formula:
P.V. = 
PMT
(1 + r)
1 + 
PMT
(1 + r)
2 + 
PMT
(1 + r)
3 + ...... + 
PMT
(1 + r)
n
Where PMT is the equal amount receivable at the end of each year at the rate of ‘r’ for a period of n
years. The sum of all the present values of this series of payments when PMT = 1 (substituting PMT 
with 1 in the right hand side of the above equation) is known as the present value of an ordinary 
annuity.
14.1.1 Present Value Annuity Factor
The future value of the above annuity can be calculated using the formula:
F.V. = PMT (1 + r)1 + PMT (1 + r)2 + ...... + PMT (1 + r)n
The sum of all the future values of the above series when PMT = 1 is known as the Future Value 
Annuity factor.
14.1.2 Value Annuity Factor
In the case of Annuity Due, as the payments are made in the beginning of each period,
P.V. = 
PMT
(1 + r)
0 + 
PMT
(1 + r)
1 + 
PMT
(1 + r)
2 + ...... + 
PMT
(1 + r)
n–1
F.V. = PMT (1 + r)0 + PMT (1 + r)1 + ..... + PMT (1 + r)n–1
Treasury Management.indb 178 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 179
Examples
1. Calculate the future value of `10,000 invested for five years at the interest rate of 6% per 
annum.
Sol. The simplest way to find the future value would be to multiply the principal amount with the 
future value factor at 6% for 5 years. The future value (or compounding factors) factor for 
6%, for five years is 1.3382 (from tables).
Therefore, Future value = 10,000 × 1.3382 = `13382.
2. How much should one invest to get `25,000 at the end of 3 years when the interest rate 
is 7%?
Sol.In this problem we have to find the present value of `25,000 at 7% for 3 years. The present 
value factor for 7% for 3 years read from the table is 0.8163.
Therefore, Present Value = 25,000 × 0.8163 = `20,407.50
3. If one invests `2,500 at the end of each year at the rate of 8% p.a., to what amount would this 
investment grow after 5 years?
Sol. The investment here is a typical, ordinary annuity. We can find the future value of this ordinary 
annuity by multiplying the amount of `2500 by the future value annuity factor of 8% for 
5 years, which is 5.8666.
Therefore, the maturity value of this investment = 2500 × 5.8666 = `14666.50
4. What is the present value of an ordinary annuity of `5000 p.a. when the interest rate is 7% 
and maturity period is 8 years?
Sol. To find the present value of the ordinary annuity, we have to multiply the amount of `5000 
by the present value annuity factor of 7% for 8 years which is 5.9713 as read from the table. 
Therefore, present value of this annuity = 5000 × 5.9713 = `29,856.50
14.1.3 Fixed Income Securities
Fixed Income Securities are also known as Bonds. They are called Fixed Income Securities because 
of the fixed coupon income that they generate over a specified period of maturity at pre-agreed 
intervals of time. Equities and Bonds are two major types of Capital Market instruments. Equities 
bestow upon the holders, the right of participation in the management of the borrowers’ business, 
whereas Bonds do not. Equities do not assure a fixed regular income, whereas Bonds do. Normally, 
the volatility of price movements of equities is quite high compared to Bonds’ price movements.
The nomenclature of a bond, say, 9.85% GOI Loan 2015 indicates three major aspects. The 9.85% 
represents the fixed income (calculated on the face value of the bond) that the investor would 
receive at say semi-annual intervals. This rate is called the Coupon of the Bond, and is never 
changed, come what may, to the ongoing market interest rate for this maturity. Usually, the mid 
portion in the nomenclature indicates the name of the borrower, the Government of India, in this 
case. The last portion indicates the maturity when the principal would be repaid along with the 
last coupon due.
Bond prices are sensitive to various factors in the market. These factors include the economic 
fundamentals like GDP growth, inflation, interest rates, unemployment, money supply, fiscal policies, 
etc. Besides, political factors and acts of God also have a bearing on the prices of bonds. Technical 
Treasury Management.indb 179 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
180 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
factors like chart points, stochastic indicators, etc., also exert their influence on the prices of bonds. 
However, the most important factor influencing bond prices is the interest rate movements.
14.1.4 Bond Valuation
To determine the fair price of a bond, we have to appreciate the fact that the market interest rate for 
the term to maturity (or the residual term to maturity) of a bond keeps changing in the real world. 
Although the coupon of a bond is never changed, as the market interest rate changes, adjustments 
will have to be made in the price of bonds to reflect the ongoing market interest rate. Thus, when the 
market rate and the coupon rate for a given maturity are the same, the bond will, obviously, trade at 
par. When the market interest rate rises beyond the coupon of the bond, the price of the bond will 
have to be lowered, so that the income from the bond is in line with market rates. Conversely, if 
the market interest rate goes below the coupon of a bond, its price will have to be higher to reflect 
the lower market interest rate. Thus, the valuation of a bond, fundamentally, rests on the movement 
in market interest rates. Thus, the price of a bond is inversely related to the change in interest rate.
What we mean by value of a bond is the present value of all its future cash flows. The sum of the 
present value of all future cash flows of a bond is its fair value (current market price). Let us take the 
example of an 8% bond with a residual maturity of exactly 5 years from today, with the assumption 
that the coupon is paid annually on this bond. If the present market interest rate for 5 years maturity 
is say 9%, then the value of this bond is given by the total present value of all the five annual coupon 
payments of `8 each, and the face value of `100 payable at maturity. Mathematically,
Total P.V. = 
8
(1 + 0.09) + 
8
(1 + 0.09)2 + 
8
(1 + 0.09)3 + 
8
(1 + 0.09)4 + 
108
(1 + 0.09)5
The cash flows on account of coupon payments are uniformly `8 for 5 years at annual installments. 
This is nothing but an annuity for 5 years. The face value of 100 payable on maturity is a single 
cash flow. So in order to find the present value of this series of cash flows, we may rewrite the above 
equation as:
Total P.V. = 8 × P.V. annuity factor at 9% for 5 years + 100 × P.V. factor at 9% for 5 years. These 
factors as observed from the PV annuity table and PV single cash flow tables are 3.8897 and 0.6499 
respectively.
Therefore, the Total P.V. of the bond = 8 × 3.8897 + 100 × 0.6499 = `96.1076
The above equation can be alternatively narrated as: 9% is the UNIFORM DISCOUNT RATE at 
which the future cash flows, when discounted, equals the price of the bond (which is 96.1076). This 
uniform discount rate is called Yield To Maturity (YTM). This formula presupposes that all future 
cash flows are reinvested at the same uniform discount rate and that the interest rate remains constant 
during the tenor of the bond. These two assumptions do not hold good in actual market dynamics. 
However, YTM is a powerful tool to price or value bonds with different coupons and tenors according 
to the yield curve. Thus, a Bond always has two risks, inherent in it, one acting in opposite direction 
to the other. These two risks are (1) The Price Risk and (2) The Reinvestment Risk. When interest 
rates come down, the price risk is in favour of the bond holder, as bond prices move inversely to 
Treasury Management.indb 180 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 181
movement in interest rate, and they go up. But the interest rate at which the intermittent cash flows 
(being coupon flows) are reinvested will be at a lower rate and hence reinvestment risk is running 
against the investor. The presence of price risk and reinvestment risk in opposing directions is called 
the “Natural Hedge” in a bond.
Also, YTM need not necessarily be the realized yield. It is only a anticipated (expected) yield, 
which presupposes that intermittent cash flows are reinvested at YTM rate and interest rate remains 
constant during the tenor of the bond.
14.1.5 Bond Theorems
Theorem 1: The price of a bond is inversely related to the change in interest rate.
The ruling market interest rate has an inverse impact on bond prices. When the interest rate goes up, 
bond prices come down and vice versa. Let us take a bond with a coupon of 8% maturing exactly 
in 10 years. When the market interest rate is 9%, its price would be,
Price = 8 × 6.4177 + 100 × 0.4224 = 93.5816
When the interest rate goes up by say 1% to 10%, the price of the bond would be 8 × present value 
annuity factor of 10% for 10 years + 100 × present value factor of 10% for 10 years, i.e.
Price = 8 × 6.1446 + 100 × 0.385 = 87.7068
We notice that the price of the bond has fallen to 87.7068 when interest rate has risen to 10% from 9%.
When the interest rate goes down from 9.00% to 8.00%, the price of the bond would be,
8 × 6.7101 + 100 × 0.4632 = `100
We notice that the price has gone up to `100 from `93.5816.
Thus we conclude that bond prices and yield are inversely related.
An interesting observation that can be made from the above discussion is that, the price of the bond 
is `100 (par) when the market rate and the coupon of the bond (8.00%) are the same.
Theorem 2: The increase in the price of a bond when the interest rate goes down by a certain 
percentage, is greater than the decrease in its price when the interest rate goes up by the same 
percentage.
In other words, given the same level, of say 1% change in interest rate, the price appreciation on 
account of interest rate going down by 1% is greater than the price depreciation on account of interest 
rate going down by 1%.
This is amply illustrated in the example we worked out earlier for theorem 1 in which we saw the 
appreciation in price when interest rate fell from 9% to 8% at `6.4184 × 100/93.5816 = 6.858%, 
whereas, the depreciation was 5.8748 × 100/93.5816 = 6.277% when the interest rate went up from 
9% to 10%. This property of a fixed income security, whereby, the bond suffers lesser depreciation 
on account of rise in interest rate than the appreciation it enjoys for the same degree of fall in interest 
rate, is called Convexity. We shall deal with Convexity in detail later.
Treasury Management.indb 181 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
182 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Theorem 3: Longer the term to maturity of a bond, higher will be its price sensitivity.
If we have two bonds of same coupon, say 8% one maturing in 10 years, and the other maturing in 
7 years, the 10 years bond will experience more price sensitivity than the 7 years bond.
In the example we worked out (for theorem 1), we have seen the price depreciation of the bond 
maturing in 10 years with a coupon of 8% when the interest rate went up from 9% to 10% is `5.8748 
and the percentage change in price = 6.277.
If we calculate the price of the 7 years bond at 9% and 10% we find the depreciation is `4.697, as 
shown below:
Price at 9% = 8 × 5.0330 + 100 × 0.5470 = `94.964
Price at 10% = 8 × 4.8684 + 100 × 0.5132 = `90.267
The percentage change in price = [(94.964 90.267)/94.964]* 100 = 4.946%
The depreciation in the price of the 10 years bond, is obviously more than the depreciation in the 
7 years.
Theorem 4: Between two bonds of same maturity but different coupons, the bond with the lower 
coupon will experience more price sensitivity than the one with higher coupon.
Let us say, there are two bonds of 10 years maturity with coupons 8% and 6% respectively. When 
the market interest rate is 9%, the price of the bond with coupon 8% is 93.5816, and the price of the 
bond with coupon 6% is 80.7462.
If the market interest rate changes to 10% from 9%, the prices of the bonds are 87.7068 and 75.4176 
respectively. The percentage changes in the price of these bonds (6.277% and 6.60% respectively) 
clearly indicate the higher price sensitivity of the bond with the lower coupon (i.e., 6%)
Theorem 5: Between two bonds of same coupon and same maturity, but differing coupon payment 
intervals, the bond with higher frequency of coupon payment is less sensitive to price changes when 
market interest rate changes.
Let there be two bonds of 8% coupon and of 10 years maturity. Bond A pays coupon semiannually, 
and Bond B pays annual coupons. If we study the following table carefully, we will be able to observe 
that the bond A which pays semiannual coupons is less price sensitive to interest rate changes.
Coupon Market Price of Price of % change in % change in
 Rate Bond A Bond B price of Bond A price of Bond B
 (Semiannual (annual
coupons) coupons)
8% 8% 100 100
8% 6% 114.72 114.88 14.72% 14.88%
8% 10% 87.71 87.53 22.29% 22.47%
The most fundamental of Bond Theorems states that ‘the price of a bond is inversely related to the 
market interest rates’. Thus, if interest rate goes up, the price falls and vice versa. Besides, a Bond 
Treasury Management.indb 182 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 183
also generates interim cash flows in the form of periodic coupon payments which may be reinvested 
as and when received. The rate at which this reinvestment may be done also depends on the market 
movements in interest rates. Thus, if the interest rate rises, the reinvestment will fetch a higher return 
(as opposed to the capital loss due to fall in price). The converse is true, if interest rate falls. These 
two opposing effects should neutralize each other at one point of time or other, during the life of 
the fixed income security, at a given interest rate. This point of time in the life of a fixed income 
security, when the capital loss/gain is matched exactly by the gain/loss in reinvestment income, is 
called its Duration. The reinvestment risk and price risk neutralize at Duration point of time. Thus, 
the natural hedge in a bond.
Looked at from another point of view, duration is nothing but the weighted average life of a fixed 
income security. The intermediary cash flows in the form of coupon payments impact the actual 
maturity, and reduce it to an effective maturity. This effective maturity (which may be computed 
using the coupon rate, actual maturity, and the market interest rate) is known as Duration. In so 
computing the duration, the weighted average life of the bond is arrived at using the present value 
of future cash flows as weights.
As Duration is a direct outcome of interest rate and maturity, it may also be defined as the measure 
of price sensitivity of a bond to changes in interest rates.
Duration is also the fulcrum around which the present value of future cash flows balance themselves. 
Let us look at it pictorially.
Duration
Figure 14.1.5
The previous figure represents the annual coupon payments on a 5 year bond and the final payment 
of face value and the last coupon on maturity. The black portions represent the present value of future 
cash flows (arrived at by discounting the future cash flows with a discounting factor corresponding 
to the ongoing market interest rate). Assuming all these flows have been placed on a horizontal 
balance, a fulcrum point will have to be found where the present values will balance themselves as 
weights. Duration is the distance between the start day and the fulcrum point.
The Simple Duration we have defined here is also known as Macaulay Duration, as it was Macaulay, 
the French Mathematician of early twentieth Century who conceptualized this property of fixed 
income securities in 1938.
Treasury Management.indb 183 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
184 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Macaulay Duration is computed by using the following mathematical formula:
Macaulay Duration (In Periods) = 
(1)PVCF1
 + (2)(PVCF2
 + (3)(PVCF3
 + ….. + (n)PVCFn
PVTCF
Where
PVCFt
 = Present value of the cash flow in period t discounted at the prevailing period yield (in 
case of semi-annual bond, one-half the YTM)
t = Period when the cash flow is expected to be received (t = 1, 2,….n)
n = Number of periods under maturity
k = Number of periods, or payments per year (k = 2 for semi-annual pay bonds and 1 for 
annual pay bonds)
PVTCF = Total present value of the cash flow of the bond, where the present value is determined 
by using the prevailing YTM
Macaulay Duration in years is computed by using the following formula:
Macaulay Duration (In Periods)
k
As we will see in the following examples, Macaulay’s Duration is linked to the price volatility of 
a bond.
Let us now calculate the duration of a bond that matures in exactly 7 years carrying a coupon of 7%. 
Let the market interest rate for 7 years be 8%.
Let us also assume that the coupons are paid annually.
Sl. No. Coupon Disc. Factor PV of coupon Wt in yrs. PV × Wt.
 at 8% (2 × 3) (4 × 5)
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
1 7 0.9259 6.4813 1 6.4813
2 7 0.8573 6.0011 2 12.0022
3 7 0.7938 5.5566 3 16.6698
4 7 0.7350 5.1450 4 20.5800
5 7 0.6806 4.7642 5 23.8210
6 7 0.6302 4.4114 6 26.4684
7 107 0.5835 62.4345 7 437.0415
Total PV 94.7941 543.0642
Duration 543.0642 ÷ 94.7941 = 5.72888 years.
Note: Duration in this case will be measured in years as the coupon is payable annually.
Treasury Management.indb 184 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 185
Alternative Method:
Sl.No. Coupon Disc. Factor P.V. PV/Total PV Time of (5 × 6)
 at 8% (2 × 3) (Weight) receipt of
cashflow
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
1 7 0.9259 6.4813 0.068372 1 0.068372
2 7 0.8573 6.0011 0.063307 2 0.126613
3 7 0.7938 5.5566 0.058618 3 0.175853
4 7 0.735 5.145 0.054276 4 0.217102
5 7 0.6806 4.7642 0.050258 5 0.251292
6 7 0.6302 4.4114 0.046537 6 0.27922
7 107 0.5835 62.4345 0.658633 7 4.610429
 Total PV 94.7941 1 Duration 5.728882
Now, how does duration help in measuring the price sensitivity of a bond?
If, in the above example, the interest rate for 7 years is to change to 7.80%, the change in price of 
the bond can be roughly worked out as follows:
Percentage change in price:
= Duration × Percentage change in yield
= 5.728882 × (8.00 – 7.80).
= 1.145774%
Absolute change in price = 94.7941 × 1.1457764 % = 1.08612
As the interest rate has fallen from 8% to 7.890, the price of the bond will appreciate to 94.7941 + 
1.08612 = 95.88022
(Please note that the price of a bond is nothing but the total of the present values of all its future 
cash flows.)
This method is, however, crude, and the preceding formula does not hold good for higher changes 
in interest rates. We shall see at a later stage, how we can refine this formula.
Let us now look at the properties of Duration.
1. Duration for a coupon-paying bond is less than its maturity. This is because of the intermediary 
cash flows, which reduce its effective maturity.
2. Duration is directly related to maturitylarger the maturity, longer will be its duration. A bond 
of 5 years maturity, will have lower duration than a bond of 10 years maturity.
3. Duration is inversely related to the coupon. In other words, for two coupon-paying bonds 
of same maturity but different coupon rates, the bond with higher coupon will have lower 
duration.
Treasury Management.indb 185 6/19/2018 6:24:05 PM
186 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
4. Duration is inversely related to the market interest rate or yield. The lower the market yield, 
the higher will be the duration.
5. Duration of a zero coupon bond is equal to its residual maturity. A bond which does not 
carry any intermediary cash glows, is a zero coupon bond. Obviously, in the absence of any 
intermediary cash flows, there is no impact on the maturity of the bond time wise, and hence 
its duration should be equal to its residual maturity.
6. Higher frequency of intermediary cash flows reduces duration. Let us take two bonds of same 
maturity and same coupon rate: One bond pays coupon annually, and the other semi – annually. 
The bond paying semi – annual coupon will have lower duration.
7. Duration of a Floating Rate bond is equal to its interest reset period, or the period remaining 
to next reset.
8. Duration of a portfolio of bonds is equal to the weighted average duration of all the bonds in 
the portfolio. Duration is additive.
The above properties can be easily verified by substituting suitable values in the example worked 
out earlier.
From the above discussion, it is obvious that Duration is basically a price sensitivity measure. Higher 
the Duration, the higher will be the price risk to the holder of a fixed rate bond.
14.1.6 Modified Duration
Duration does not capture accurately the price changes in bonds arising from larger changes in interest 
rates. Hence, we refine the formula we discussed earlier by introducing a new concept, known as 
Modified Duration. Modified Duration is a better measure of price sensitivity of bond prices. It is 
calculated using the formula,
Modified Duration = 
Duration
1 + Yield
In our example worked out earlier, Modified Duration is equal to,
5.728882 ÷ (1 + 0.08) = 5.3045
Let us use this Modified Duration to calculate the change in the price of the bond, when the interest 
rate changes from 8% to 7.8%.
The formula is:
Percentage Change in Price = – Modified Duration × Percentage change in yield
= –5.3045 × – 0.20
(– 0.20 because yield has fallen)
= + 1.0609%
Absolute change in price = 94.7941 × 1.0609% = 1.00567
Hence the new price of the bond will be 94.7941 + 1.00567 = 95.79977 (as against 95.88022 arrived 
at using simple duration).
Treasury Management.indb 186 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 187
The negative sign used in the above formula takes care of the inverse price/yield relationship.
Modified Duration is mathematically the first order derivative of duration. It too has its shortcomings, 
for it does not capture price movements for changes in interest rates beyond 1% or 100 basis points 
accurately. This is because of the convexity effect of fixed income securities.
14.1.7 Limitations of Duration
1. Duration basically assumes parallel shift in the yield curve.
2. Duration does not capture interest rate volatility.
3. Duration as price sensitive measure is applicable only for small changes in interest rates.
4. Duration is applicable only to option free bonds.
What is Convexity?
Price
Yield
Figure 14.1.7
We know that any fall in interest rate results in the bonds’ prices going up and vice versa. It has been 
empirically observed that the price appreciation for a given fall in interest rate is always higher than the 
price depreciation when the interest rises by the same level. This property of a bond is due to its Convexity.
The previous figure illustrates the convex property of a bond. The straight line represents Price 
Yield’s inverse relationship based on duration. The convex curve represents the empirical results of 
price changes observed for various changes in yield. At the point where the straight line touches the 
curve, the bond trades at par when the market interest equals the coupon. The portion of the straight 
line very close to the curve on either sides of this point of contact, represents the price yield changes 
captured by modified duration. The portions on either side of the point of contact represent the error 
that occurs in calculating price changes using duration/modified duration only visavis price changes 
calculated with the effect of convexity also built in.
Convexity is the second order derivative of duration. It is a number which is always positive, and its 
effect is always added to the effect due to modified duration to arrive at the accurate price change, 
when interest rates change beyond 1%.
Treasury Management.indb 187 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
188 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
An example on how to calculate the convexity, and its effect on price changes is shown below:
Sr. Coupon Disc. Factor PV of coupon t (1 + t) (4 × 5)
 at 8% (2 × 3)
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
1 7 0.9259 6.4813 1 12.9626
2 7 0.8573 6.0011 6 36.0066
3 7 0.7938 5.5566 12 66.6792
4 7 0.735 5.145 20 102.9000
5 7 0.6806 4.7642 30 142.9260
6 7 0.6302 4.4114 42 185.2788
7 107 0.5835 62.4345 56 3496.3320
Total PV 94.7941 Total of Col. 6 = 4043.0852
Convexity = 4043.0852 ÷ { 94.7941 × (1 + 0:08)2}
= 4043.0852 ÷ 110.5678 = 36.56
The change in price as captured by convexity, is obtained by the formula, 0.5 × convexity × (change 
in yield)2 × 100
Thus, if the market interest rate changes from, say, 8 to 9.5%, the percentage change in price of the 
bond will be equal to,
= change due to mod.duration effect + change due to convexity effect
= (– 5.3045 × 1.5) + [0.5 × 36.56 × (.015)2 × 100]
= – 7.9675 + 0.4113
= – 7.5454 or – 7.54%
Thus, the accurate change in price of the bond when interest rate rises from 8 to 9.5%, is equal to 
94.7941 × 7.54/100 = 7.14, i.e., the price of the bond will now be, 94.7941 – 7.14 = 87.6541.
Please study the following table, which shows the price of a 10 year bond with coupon of 8% at 
various interest rates. It may be easily observed, that the percentage fall in price is smaller than the 
percentage rise in price for a given rate change of interest.
Mkt. Int. Rate Price % change in price
  4.00 132.70 3.587
  4.50 127.94 3.564
  5.00 123.38 3.526
  5.50 119.03 3.487
  6.00 114,99 1.464
  6.50 110.90 3.417
  7.00 107.11 3.398
Treasury Management.indb 188 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 189
  7.50 103.47 3.354
  8.00 100.00 0.000
  8.50 96.68 3.320
  9.00 93.50 3.289
  9.50 90.45 3.262
10.00 87.54 3.217
10.50 84.75 3.187
11.00 82.07 3.162
11.50 79.51 3.119
12.00 77.06 3.081
12.50 74.71 3.050
14.1.9 Bond Yield
The coupon interest received on a bond reflects only a nominal current income, and does not reflect 
the actual income (return) when the market interest is different. Hence, the coupon rate is known as 
Nominal Yield or just Coupon Yield.
However, if we take the price we pay into consideration while computing the return from a bond, 
the result we arrive at is called the Current Yield. In other words, Current Yield = Coupon amount / 
Price. Current Yield is a useful indicator for very short periods of time only, as it does not capture 
the effect of change in price of the bond on the realized yield.
Yield to Maturity of a bond is that single discount rate which reduces all the future cash flows to 
their present value. We know that,
P.V. = 
C
(1 + r)
 + 
C
(1 + r)2 + 
C
(1 + r)3 + 
C
(1 + r)4 + ...... + 
C + 100
(1 + r)n
In the above equation, if we know the price of the bond (i.e., total PV of all future cash flows), and 
the coupon amounts, we can calculate the value of ‘r’, the interest rate which is used to find the 
present value of all future cash flows. This rate ‘r’ is known as the Yield to Maturity.
Realized Yield: Let us say, we bought a 7 years bond with a coupon of 7%, exactly 2 years ago at 
a price of `100. Today, we want to sell it in the market, and would like to calculate the yield that 
we have earned on holding this bond for two years, which is the Realized Yield on this investment.
Let us say, today the 5 years market rate is 6.5%. The price of our bond which has exactly 5 years 
residual maturity will be,
Price = 
7
(1 + 0.065) + 
7
(1 + 0.065)2 + 
7
(1 + 0.065)3 + 
7
(1 + 0.065)4 + 
105
(1 + 0.065)5 = 102.1056
This may be equated to the two coupon flows, and the sale proceeds we would get on selling this 
bond to arrive at the realized yield.
Treasury Management.indb 189 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
190 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Price paid for buying the bond two years ago,
= 
7
(1 + y)
 + 
102.1056 + 7
(1 + y)
2
(We will have received two coupons for having held the bond for 2 years from the date of purchase.)
We may solve for ‘Y’ which is the realized yield.
Expected Yield: Let us say we bought a bond with 7% coupon maturing in 7 years at a price of 100. 
We would like to know what would be the expected yield of this bond, say 2 years from now. Let 
us also assume our view on interest rate is, that it would rise to 8% in 2 years time.
Then, the price of this bond after 2 years when the interest rate is likely to be 8% is,
Price = 
7
(1 + 0.08) + 
7
(1 + 0.08)^2 + 
7
(1 + 0.08)^3 + 
7
(1 + 0.08)^4 + 
107
(1 + 0.08)^5 = 94.9445
We have paid a price of `100 at the time of buying this bond, therefore,
100 = 
7
(1 + y)
 + 
94.945 + 7
(1 + y)^2
(We will have received two coupons while holding the bond for exactly 2 years.)
We can solve for ‘y’ from the above equation, which will be the expected yield if we wish to sell it 
2 years from today.
The Yield to Maturity can be only considered as a measure of the overall internal rate of return on 
the investment in bond, which provides intermediate cash flows that are assumed to be reinvested 
for the remaining period till maturity of the bond at an interest rate equal to YTM. Obviously, YTM 
cannot be considered as the interest rate for the corresponding period. Further, YTM has a drawback 
in that it assumes that future cash flows will be reinvested over the respective remaining periods 
till maturity at the same fixed rate the YTM itself. This presumes that the yield curve is flat, i.e. the 
yield is uniform for all time periods. This assumption is not realistic.
Hence, it is necessary to arrive at a measure of interest rate for specific periods, called Spot Rates 
from the traded prices of bonds of various maturities which do not provide intermediate cash flows. 
Zero coupon bonds meet this requirement perfectly, hence, Spot Rate is also known as Zero Coupon 
Yield. But we do not have zero coupon bonds of various maturities which are traded in the market, 
from whose prices we can calculate the interest rates (Spot Rates) for various periods. This is, 
therefore, achieved by arriving at the Zero Coupon/Spot rates by a mathematical process known as 
Boot Strapping. This process eliminates intermediary cash flows and, hence, the wrong assumption 
of the same rate for reinvestment as well.
Let us say, the present Market Rates or YTM for different bond maturities are as follows:
1 year 5%
2 years 6%
3 years 7%
4 years 7.5% and so on.
Treasury Management.indb 190 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 191
These rates, as a measure of interest for the above terms, are impure for the reasons explained 
previously. If we consider, each of these maturities as representing bonds maturing in the 
corresponding years, we may easily arrive at the zero rates for each maturity, which is devoid of 
reinvestment risk, or devoid of assumption of same rate for reinvestment of coupon flows.
For the first year, a bond paying 5% annually will have only one payment at the maturity. So, there 
is no intermediary cash flow, and so the YTM is 5% and the Zero rate is the same.
If we consider the twoyear rate of 6% as a bond maturing in 2 years with two annual coupons of 6% 
each, the price of the bond will be,
Price = 
6
(1 + 0.05) + 
106
(1 + Z2
)2 (Eq. I)
If we know the price of this bond in the market, we can calculate Z2 from the above equation which 
is the 2 year Zero Rate.
If we consider the threeyear rate of 7% as a bond maturing in 3 years with three annual coupons of 
7% each, the price of the bond will be,
Price = 7
(1 + 0.05) + 
7
(1 + Z2
)2 + 
107
(1 + Z3
)
3
In the above equation, we know the price and the value of Z2 (from Eq I above), and so we can solve 
for Z, which will be the three year Zero Rate.
By continuing this process we can develop a Zero Rate Yield Curve for different maturities, and 
these Zero Rates are now pure rates devoid of the assumption of same rate for reinvestment of 
intermediary cash flows of a couponpaying bond.
Let us note here that Zero Rates are very useful for pricing derivative products as they are Pure Rates.
Forward Rates
Let us say, that we have some money to invest for 6 months. The present interest rates available for 
different maturities are as follows:
1m 5.5%
2m 6%
3m 6%
6m 6.5%
1 year 7.5%, etc.
We can invest this money in different ways. For example, we can invest the amount at one go for 
6 months at 6.5%. We can also invest this money initially for 3 months, and then on maturity roll it 
over for 3 more months. There are many such possibilities. Confining ourselves to the two possibilities 
mentioned previously, we will be indifferent to either of these two methods only when the final cash 
flow that we are going to receive is the same in both the cases.
The investment at one go for 6 months straight, is going to give us a maturity amount of (1 + 0.065 
× 181/365).
Treasury Management.indb 191 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
192 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The investment in two legs, viz., for 3 months initially, and then for another 3 months will give us 
a maturity amount of,
(1 + 0.06 × 91/365) × (1 + f × 91/365), where ‘f’ is the 3 months interest rate, 3 months from now.
These two maturity values should be equal, in order to remain indifferent to either of these two 
methods.
Therefore, (1 + 0.065 × 181/365) = (1 + 0.06 × 91/365) × (1 + f × 91/365)
We can solve for f from the above equation which will be 3 months interest rate, 3 months from 
now, and is implied in the present yield curve.
(f = 6.82%)
Similarly, we can derive the forward rates for different maturities starting at different future dates, 
and develop an implied forward yield curve which will be very useful for pricing derivatives.
Salient Points
1. Money has Time Value. Ready possession of money is preferable.
2. People prefer ready possession of money, because money earns interest, its value may be 
eroded due to inflation, and present consumption will have to be postponed if one were to 
receive the money due to it today at a future date.
3. Interest is paid on a simple basis or on a compounded basis.
4. The factor used to find the present value of a future cash flow is called a discount factor, and the 
factor which is used to find the future value of a present investment is called a compounding 
factor.
5. Cash flows can be either single or multiple.
6. Fixed income securities are debt instruments which pay a periodic interest rate (coupon) on 
the investment for a given maturity.
7. A coupon payment structure of fixed income security is similar to an annuity.
8. The value of a fixed income security is arrived at by computing the present value of all its 
promised cash flows in future.
9. The price of a fixed income security is inversely related to the market interest rate.
10. The appreciation in price, when interest rate goes down is greater than the depreciation in 
price when the interest rate rises higher by the same degree.
11. The longer the maturity, the more volatile will be the price of a bond.
12. Bonds with lower coupon will be more volatile in their price movements when interest rate 
changes in the market.
13. Between two bonds of same maturity and coupon rates, the bond with higher frequency of 
coupon payments will be less volatile in its price changes when interest rate changes in the 
market.
14. Duration is a neutral point of time in the life of a fixed income security when the reinvestment 
risk is compensated by the price risk.
15. Duration is in essence, the effective maturity of the bond.
Treasury Management.indb 192 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES, DURATION AND CONVEXITY 193
16. Duration is directly related to the maturity of a bond.
17. Duration is inversely related to coupon and market interest rates.
18. Duration of a coupon paying bond is less than its maturity.
19. Duration of a floating rate bond is equal to the interest resetting period, or the period remaining 
to the next resetting.
20. Duration of a zero coupon bond is equal to its residual maturity.
21. Duration of a portfolio of bonds is additive.
22. Modified Duration is a refinement over Duration, as the latter does not capture price changes 
accurately when market interest rate changes.
23. Modified Duration too captures price changes only for small changes in interest rates.
24. Convexity together with Modified Duration captures price changes of bonds accurately, when 
the market interest rate changes.
Let Us Sum Up
Money has time value. Fixed income securities are known as bonds. Although the coupon of a 
bond is never changed, as the market interest rate changes, adjustments will have to be made in the 
price of the bonds to reflect the on-going market interest. Thus the price of the bond has an inverse 
relationship with market interest rates. The increase and decrease in prices when the interest rate 
move by the same measure may not be the same. Longer the term to maturity of a bond, higher will 
be its price sensitivity. Between two bonds of the same maturity but different coupons, the bond 
with lower coupon will experience more price sensitivity than the one with higher coupon. Between 
two bonds of same coupon and same maturity but differing coupon intervals, the bond with higher 
frequency of coupon payment is less sensitive to price changes when market interest rate changes. 
Duration may be defined as the measure of price sensitivity of a bond to changes in interest rates. 
Modified duration is mathematically the first order derivative of duration.
Keywords
Time value of money, bond valuation, bond theorems, duration, modified duration and bond yield
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is the general assumption under Duration?
(a) Parallel shift in yield curve
(b) Linear shift in yield curve
(c) Non-linear shift in yield curve
(d) Uniform shift in yield curve
2. Duration is applicable to ______________ free bonds
(a) Interest
(b) Option
Treasury Management.indb 193 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
194 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(c) Discount
(d) Maturity
3. What is the duration of a zero coupon bond?
(a) More than maturity
(b) Less than maturity
(c) Equal to maturity
(d) Determined by issuer
4. How is current yield defined?
(a) Price/coupon
(b) price/market interest rate
(c) coupon/face value
(d) coupon/price
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 194 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
 BOND PORTFOLIO
MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE
15.0 Objectives
15.1 Legal Framework Governing Securities
15.2 Bond Portfolio Management
15.3 Banking Book and Trading Book
15.4 Buy‑and‑Hold Strategy
15.5 Investment Maturity Strategies
15.6 The Ladder or Spaced Maturity Strategy
15.7 The Front-End Loaded Maturity Strategy
15.8 The Back‑End Loaded Maturity Strategy
15.9 The Barbell Strategy
15.10 Active Bond Management
15.11 Maturity
15.12 Sector-Issuer
15.13 Quality
15.14 Coupon and Tax Implications
15.15 Yield Curve Anticipation
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
15
Chapter 1-15.indd 195 6/21/2018 4:40:28 PM
196 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
15.0 OBJECTIVES
After studying this section, you will be able to:
l Describe the important RBI instructions governing securities.
l Identify the risk involved in investment in bonds.
l Explain the Active and Passive Approach to bond portfolio management.
l Explain the meaning of Banking Book and Trading Book.
l Explain the investment maturity strategies.
l Explain what is meant by immunization and dedication.
l Explain the aspects of bonds which are important from the angle of active bond portfolio 
management.
l Describe ‘yield curve anticipation’ as a tool of bond portfolio management.
Banks in India, generally invest in bonds issued by both the Central and State Governments and 
their agencies. Investment in corporate debt is also increasingly becoming popular. Banks may 
invest in all types of bonds of varying maturities, and are expected to manage the interest rate risk 
arising from these investments by adopting suitable AssetLiability management policies. Further, 
certain privately placed NonSLR Bonds will be treated at par with Advances and be subjected to 
all prudential norms relating to advances. A typical bank’s investment portfolio would consist of all 
types of bonds and possibly equity shares also.
15.1 LEGAL FRAMEWORK GOVERNING SECURITIES
Reserve Bank of India is entrusted with the regulation of transactions in Government securities, 
money market securities, gold related securities and repos in all debt instruments. In particular, 
aspects relating to Government securities are covered under the Public Debt Act and Rules and 
Notifications under the Public Debt Act, issued by both Central and State Governments. As regards 
corporate bonds, provisions contained in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, Depositories Act, 
Stock Exchange Bye Laws and the terms and conditions of issue of the individual bonds are relevant.
Investment and trading activities of banks in bonds should conform with the regulations issued by RBI 
on classification and valuation of investments in addition to other legal provisions mainly contained 
in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act. The RBI regulations are mainly prudential. Accordingly 
banks are required to categorize the investments into three, viz ‘Held To maturity’ (HTM), ‘Held 
For Trading’ (HFT) and ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS). HTM is not to exceed 25% of the investments. 
However, Banks are permitted to hold investments in HTM category up to the regulatory SLR. HFT 
should be subject to the discipline and controls required for trading. AFS contains investments which 
are in neither HTM nor HFT categories. Categorisation is based on the intention of the bank at the 
time of purchase of the security and shifting between categories is permissible only exceptionally. 
There are stringent rules for shifting between categories. Banks are not expected to take any unrealised 
gain to income account, but provide for all losses on a markto-market basis. While HTM investments 
need not be marked to market, HFT and AFS should be marked to market. RBI also has stipulated 
that banks should maintain an ‘Investment Fluctuation Reserve’ and build up adequate reserves out 
of realised gains every year.
Treasury Management.indb 196 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 197
While the above are some of the salient features of RBI instructions, Investment managers in banks 
should be fully conversant with the instructions issued by RBI from time to time regarding the 
procedural and regulatory aspects relating to investments.
In addition, it is necessary to take into consideration the management perspectives on returns and risk 
management. The organizational structure for treasury management also has an important bearing 
on the conduct of bond portfolio management on safe and sound lines.
15.2 BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
The Investment policy is the document approved by the top management of a bank articulating 
the investment objectives, risk management aspects, etc. Banks can adopt both passive and active 
approaches for the management of their portfolios and the bank’s investment policy should specify 
the bank’s approach. The passive approach is usually identified with buyandhold strategy. Active 
bond portfolio management involves switching and swapping bonds as circumstances change in 
the market.
15.3 BANKING BOOK AND TRADING BOOK
Investments are categorized on the basis of the bank’s intent at the time of acquisition of securities, 
i.e. whether it is meant to be held till maturity (Held To Maturity) or sold after some period. A further 
differentiation is possible in respect to the securities acquired for sale: whether they are intended 
to be available for sale at an appropriate time depending on the bank’s liquidity needs (Available 
for Sale) or whether they are intended for trading operations (purchase and sale of securities with a 
view to take advantage of the expected movement in their market prices). Those securities purchased 
with the intention of trading have to be classified as ‘Held for Trading’ and are subject to regulatory 
prescriptions regarding holding period, stoploss, etc. The aggregation of such securities held for 
trading forms the ‘Trading Book’ of the bank. A bank which decides to maintain a trading book is 
expected to have in place proper risk management, trading policies, delegation of powers, skills, 
dealing infrastructure, etc. Basle Committee’s capital adequacy norms prescribe maintenance of 
capital to cover market risk in the Trading Book. Securities, other than those in the trading book, 
are classified as belonging to the ‘Banking Book’. In the case of ‘Banking Book’, the securities are 
treated at par with other assets as far as balance sheet risks are concerned.
15.4 BUY AND HOLD STRATEGY
We have seen in an earlier section that if an investor holds a security till maturity, and has also been 
able to reinvest the periodic coupons during the residual maturity period at a return, which is not 
less than the yield to maturity (YTM) expected at the time of purchasing the bond, he would have 
realised an yield which is not less than the expected YTM. A buy-and hold strategy essentially involves 
investing in securities and holding them till maturity or earlier redemption (in case of bonds with call 
option). The coupon payments from the bond are reinvested in similar securities. The potential loss in 
Treasury Management.indb 197 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
198 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
a bond portfolio arises from two sources, one is the price risk, if the bond is sold before maturity and 
interest rates harden; and the second is reinvestment risk when the coupons cannot be reinvested at 
the expected YTM on account of market interest rates declining. A hold to maturity strategy ensures 
that the first risk, viz., the price risk, is eliminated as the bond will fetch the par value on redemption 
at maturity and the investor needs only to bother about the creditworthiness of the issuer. However, 
the reinvestment risk cannot be avoided in a buyandhold strategy as the investor will be able to 
reinvest the coupons only at the yields available in the market at the relevant periods, and in case the 
market yields decline, the investor faces a reinvestment loss. Consequently, the investor may fail to 
achieve a realised yield on the investment as expected at the time of purchase of the bond. However, 
the buy and hold strategy is attractive for investors who are primarily interested in receiving large 
coupon incomes during the investment horizon which is predefined. This type of investors includes 
individuals such as retired persons and institutional investors comprising endowment funds, debt 
mutual funds, insurance companies, etc. Entities with very large size funds, at times, may find it 
difficult to effect portfolio turnover, particularly if the market is shallow when large deals could 
have considerable price impact in the market. In markets which are not developed, managers of 
such funds may find it prudent to adopt a passive strategy. Even in the passive portfolio strategy it 
is possible to plan out the maturities in order to achieve better portfolio yields. For instance, ‘Bond 
Ladder’ strategy presents such an opportunity.
15.5 INVESTMENT MATURITY STRATEGIES
A static buy-and-hold strategy may not always be practical as it would be difficult to foresee 
all exigencies in the markets, regulatory requirements and the bank’s internal funds position – 
forcing liquidation of the investment before its contractual maturity. Further, the corpus of a 
fund invested in a single bond to be held till maturity may change its value depending upon the 
interest rates at which the coupons could be reinvested. While high coupons would provide some 
compensation in case reinvestment income falls below expectation (i.e., if interest rate decline 
in the market), high coupon bonds are typically long term and as such, subject to higher price 
risk. If all monies are invested in long term securities, the investor may receive high coupon but 
misses the opportunity to diversify the portfolio with reference to maturities. In the case of a 
bank this may aggravate the problem of assetliability mismatch. Thus it is prudent to invest in 
securities of varying maturities. Several maturity distribution strategies are available, as described 
in the following paragraphs.
15.6 THE LADDER OR SPACED MATURITY STRATEGY
Banks may decide the maximum acceptable maturity, say, eight years and then invest equal proportion 
in each of several maturity intervals. Thus the bank may invest 12.50 per cent of its investment 
portfolio in securities one year or less from maturity, another 12.50 per cent in securities maturing 
within two years but not less than one year, another 12.50 per cent in interval of two to three years and 
so forth, until the eight year point is reached. The Ladder strategy helps avoid income fluctuations, 
but does not maximise returns. By ensuring periodic availability of funds from the redemptions, 
Treasury Management.indb 198 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 199
the strategy builds in flexibility to take advantage of the promising opportunities that may appear. 
The Ladder Strategy may be adopted by banks with limited portfolio management expertise. An 
easy way to build a ladder will be to participate in the auctions conducted by the RBI for sale of 
treasury bills and dated securities, provided the investing bank has the required bidding skills or is 
in a position to take the services of seasoned bidders like banks and primary dealers at the auctions. 
However, the transaction cost aspects would have to be considered particularly by banks with small 
corpus of funds.
0 1 Yr 2 Yr
12.50%
3 Yr 4 Yr 5 Yr 6 Yr 7 Yr 8 Yr
Figure 15.1
15.7 THE FRONT-END LOADED MATURITY STRATEGY
Under this strategy a bank may make all its investments in bonds which mature within a brief period 
of time, say two years. Within this two year period, the bank may decide that 20 per cent may be 
invested in maturities up to one year and the remaining in maturities up to two years, but not less 
than one year. Thus, this approach emphasizes the use of investment portfolio more as a source of 
liquidity and less as a source of income.
0 1 Yr 2 Yr
80%
20%
Figure 15.2
Treasury Management.indb 199 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
200 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
15.8 THE BACK-END LOADED MATURITY STRATEGY
A bank placing emphasis on income as opposed to liquidity may adopt a policy of investing in 
medium to long term bonds (say, 510 years). The strategy may be to increase the net interest income 
by borrowing short and investing long. This entails interest rate (maturity mismatch) risk for the bank.
0 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 Yr 6 Yr 7 Yr 8 Yr 9 Yr 10 Yr
Figure 15.3
15.9 THE BARBELL STRATEGY
The Barbell strategy is a combination of frontended and backended approaches. The bank makes 
most of its investments in short term bonds (to provide liquidity) and long term bonds (to provide 
income associated with high coupons) with minimal investments in the intermediate maturities.
0 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 Yr 6 Yr 7 Yr 8 Yr 9 Yr
Figure 15.4
Immunization
Immunization is a strategy which applies the concept of duration in bond portfolio management. 
Duration is the weighted-average measure of a bond’s life, where the various time periods in which 
the bond generates cash flows are weighted according to the relative size of the present value of 
those cash flows. Thus, Duration is the measure of average time for receipt of the cash flows from 
a bond in present value terms. This is also the point of time in the life of the bond when the capital 
gain/loss is exactly countervailed by their reinvestment loss/gain. Hence, if a bond is sold exactly 
Treasury Management.indb 200 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 201
at the point of its Duration the investor will not suffer any loss in return and his realised yield will 
be same as the Expected Yield at the time of purchase of bond. In other words, his investment is 
immunized from loss if he takes care to ensure that his investment horizon matches with the duration 
of his portfolio. [Note: duration is additive and the duration of a portfolio is the weighted average 
of the durations of the individual bonds in the portfolio, weights being the ratio of the market price 
to the total market value of the portfolio]. In other words, if the investment horizon is two years, 
the duration of the portfolio should be two years and as such, the nominal maturity will be higher. 
The following example will make the concept clear:
Example
An investor has purchased a 10 year bond providing a coupon income of 8% per annum. Duration 
of the bond is 7.07 years. It may be seen from the following table showing the total return for 
holding for 1, 3, 7.07 and 10 years (sale and reinvestment values at different interest rate levels) 
that the expected yield of 8% is ensured if the bond is sold at the end of 7.07 years in all interest 
rate scenarios, viz. stable, declining and increasing interest rates.
Total Return on 8% ten year Bond held through Various Holding Periods
Holding Period in years
Income Source Yield 1 3 7.07 1 0
on reinv.
Coupon income 80.00 240.00 565.60 800.00
Duration at time of sale 6.75 5.58 2.65 0.00
Capital Gain/loss 127.36 105.28 50.00 0.00
Interest on interest 6% 1.20 18.74 140.64 274.81
Total return 208.56 364.02 756.24 1074.81
Return% 20% 11% 8% 7%
Coupon income 80.00 240.00 565.60 800.00
Duration at time of sale 6.35 5.34 2.75 0.00
Capital Gain/loss 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Interest on interest 8% 1.60 25.32 160.38 391.12
Total return 81.60 265.32 725.98 1191.12
Return% 8% 8% 8% 8%
Coupon income 80.00 240.00 565.60 800.00
Duration at time of sale 6.17 5.24 2.73 0.00
Capital Gain/loss –111.21 –94.47 –49.21 0.00
Interest on interest 11% 2.20 35.52 234.54 594.73
Total return –29.01 181.05 750.94 1394.73
Return% –3% 6% 8% 9%
Treasury Management.indb 201 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
202 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Immunization using the concept of duration, to be effective, has to be a continuous process, as 
duration changes with the change in yields as also the remaining period to maturity. If, for instance, 
the initial investment horizon is three years, the initial duration of the portfolio should be three years. 
After some time, say six months, investment horizon will be two and half years, but the duration of 
portfolio would be different from two and half years on account of changes in the market yields and 
the nominal residual maturities of the bonds in the portfolio reducing by six months. The portfolio 
will now have to be rebalanced by buying/selling appropriate bonds such that the duration is brought 
to two and half years.
The following limitations in the technique of immunization must be noted:
(i) Continual rebalancing of portfolio would entail considerable transaction cost.
(ii) When the market is illiquid, it may not be possible to bring about the desired changes in 
portfolio.
Duration measure can be used as an important element in both passive and active portfolio strategies. 
In the former case, duration matching with the investment horizon is attempted for neutralizing the 
interest rate risk. In the latter case, efforts are made to take interest rate risk positions by aggressively 
changing the durations of portfolio (going long when the interest rates are expected to decline and 
short when rates are expected to increase). However, the basic assumptions subject to which duration 
is used as price sensitivity measure should always be borne in mind, vis., assumption of parallel 
shift in yield curve and lack of precision when interest rate changes are large. When interest rate 
changes do not satisfy these assumptions, matching the duration to the investment horizon will not 
ensure immunization. Nevertheless, studies support the theory that a duration-matched portfolio 
will outperform a maturity-matched portfolio.
Dedication
Dedication is a strategy wherein the bond portfolio is structured in such a way that cash flows of 
the portfolio would be available as and when necessary to fund the maturing liabilities. As the cash 
flows are sought to be matched, dedication would to some extent, help in managing interest rate 
risk. If the portfolio is structured properly cash flows from principal repayments and coupon receipts 
plus any interest from investments in short term instruments would be sufficient to defray planned 
expenses /’repay liabilities as they fall clue. Such dedication can be easily achieved by using a series 
of Zero coupon bonds, durations of which would match with the outflows. STRIPS, where they are 
available, also are useful instrument in place of Zeros. [Separate Trading in Registered Interest and 
Principal SecuritiesSTRIPS is a method which would facilitate separation of coupons and principal 
from a coupon bearing bond, and also their reconstitution, with a view to facilitate trade in them by 
pricing each of the expected coupon or principal cash flows as separate zero coupon bonds.]
15.10 ACTIVE BOND MANAGEMENT
The intention behind undertaking active bond management is to achieve higher returns compared 
to those available under passive strategies. Higher returns are expected to be achieved by correctly 
Treasury Management.indb 202 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 203
positioning the portfolio’s maturity structure, coupons and quality to benefit from changes in the 
general levels of interest rates. Thus active bond management entails taking a view on the movement 
of the level of interest rates in different market segments, viz., call, term, corporate and sovereign 
debt, etc. The strategy has rate and spread anticipation as its mainstay, is highly risky and can be 
suggested only if the bank has the necessary skills and infrastructure and risk management system.
Trading is an important function of active portfolio management. It is important that the policy 
specifically states whether the bank would undertake trading in investments. Where a bank’s 
management is satisfied that the bank has the necessary human skills and infrastructure to undertake 
trading in securities and decides to derive income from trading activities, such bank maintains a 
‘Trading Book’. There should be strict rules in place relating to the specific bonds to be included 
in the trading book and maximum holding period and defeasance period (meaning time taken for 
unwinding a position). Specific limits should be prescribed relating to the overall size of the trading 
book, duration of bonds/portfolio, stop-loss, etc.
While conducting bond portfolio management, in particular active management, the following 
aspects are of relevance:
15.11 MATURITY
The dealer may go in for longer maturity if interest rates are expected to fall as prices will rise, 
and shorter maturity, if interest rates are expected to rise and prices fall. However, while making 
the maturity decision, the portfolio objectives of maximizing total return (coupons, reinvestment 
income and capital gains) should not be lost sight of. Most importantly, the forecast on interest rates 
based on which decisions on maturity are taken should be reviewed continuously as expected rates 
may change significantly due to changing economic expectations, RBI policy, and developments 
in external sector. As a matter of prudence, banks which reap huge trading profits during times of 
falling interest rates should build up investment fluctuation reserves to take care of losses when the 
interest rates may rise in future so as to avoid volatility in earnings. As mentioned earlier, RBI has 
already stipulated this.
15.12 SECTOR-ISSUER
Bonds are issued by corporates operating in different economic/commercial sectors and carry different 
credit risks. Hence they are priced differently in the market. Typically, the market prices the bonds 
by adding credit risk premium over the sovereign yield (default risk free) of corresponding maturity. 
The level of premium can also be influenced by the state of the market liquidity and the condition 
of the issuer (like steel, IT, petroleum, etc.). The premium over the sovereign yield for the time 
being existing in the market is known as the ‘yield spread’ or credit risk premium. The yield spread 
changes as a consequence of the changes about the expectations on the credit quality of the issuer 
and/or prospect of the sector. It may widen or narrow down. Assume that the yield spread was 20 
basis points between an AAA company and Government bond yield. If it is expected that this spread 
is likely to widen, a dealer may sell company’s bonds from his portfolio and buy them back when 
the spread actually widens and the prices go down, thus reaping a price gain.
Treasury Management.indb 203 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
204 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
15.13 QUALITY
Quality of a bond is reflected in its market prices. High quality bonds typically offer low yields and 
low quality bonds higher yields. An important requirement in portfolio management is to achieve 
quality diversification, as a proper mix of high and low quality bonds should be held in order to achieve 
higher returns by assuming risk consciously. Management of such risks thus becomes an important 
responsibility of the portfolio manager. Generally, yield spreads between different quality bonds narrow 
during economic recovery and widen during economic contraction. Subject to the investment policy 
laid down by the bank, high quality bonds may be purchased when economy is expected to contract and 
lower quality bonds acquired when an economic expansion is expected. During the ensuing economic 
expansion even the low quality bonds are expected to see increase in prices, offering profit potential.
15.14 COUPON AND TAX IMPLICATIONS
Coupon is the interest rate promised on the bond by the issuer. There is a wide range of issues made 
both by Governments and companies offering a range of coupon rates to choose from. Choice of 
coupon is dependent on factors such as need for current income, the sensitivity to price fluctuations 
and interest rate expectations. The following considerations are important:
(i) High coupon bonds are relatively less price sensitive compared to low coupon bonds with 
similar characteristics.
(ii) Prices/Yields change also because of factors such as supply of new issues, call features, credit 
enhancements, etc.
(iii) Tax implications also play an important role in the selection of appropriate coupon.
For example, an individual who is concerned with receiving high current income and has a buyand-hold approach will select issues carrying high coupons. From taxation angle he may go in for 
a Zero Coupon Bond if the capital gain tax has to be paid only on sale/redemption.
On the other hand, if tax has to be paid on the annual interest accrued, the tax implication would 
be different. Thus a bond dealer has to ascertain the position of the prevailing tax law in order to 
meaningfully assess the post-tax returns on bonds. Also, if the bond manager expects the interest 
rate to fall, he may prefer to invest in Zero coupon bonds to maximize the capital gains. On the other 
hand, if he feels that the interest rate is likely to rise he may go in for high coupon bonds which are 
less price sensitive. However, for a fund which is exempt from payment of income tax, total return 
is more important and as such the selection of issue will take into account all the factors impacting 
total return and not the coupon size alone.
15.15 YIELD CURVE ANTICIPATION
We have discussed in the above paragraphs how by anticipating interest rates banks can take 
investment decisions. The rate anticipation strategy can be refined by adopting more sophisticated 
strategies based on Yield Curve anticipation. The level of interest rates (low, high) and pattern of 
yield curve changes over a period and anticipation of such changes helps in positioning the portfolio 
as far as investment maturities arc concerned.
Treasury Management.indb 204 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 205
A measure of such changes is the term spread, i.e. spread of long term yield over short term yield, 
otherwise known as “tenor premium”. Term spreads change by different magnitudes across the 
yield curve. For instance the short term rates may rise (say) by 100 basis points while during the 
same time long term rates may rise only by (say) 25 basis points. As a result the price changes in 
respect of short term and long term bonds over a given period can be different from the changes if 
a parallel shift in yield curve was assumed. The changes can be quite substantial when the shape of 
yield curve changes from positive slope to negative slope and vice versa. In such conditions short and 
intermediate maturities will undergo higher levels of yield shift compared to long term bonds. If the 
yield falls by more number of basis points in the intermediate maturity segment of the yield curve, it 
is possible that the corresponding price gain can be more than in the case of long term bonds. Thus, 
it becomes important not only to forecast the movement of the general level of interest rates but 
also the segment on the yield curve where the changes are expected to be more, compared to other 
segments. For instance, if an investor feels that the interest rates are likely to fall, rate anticipation 
would suggest making investment in the longest available bond. However, if the investor further 
anticipates that the decline will be small in the long end and more in middle and short ends on the 
yield curve, he may invest in medium term bonds. In the event of his forecast turning out to be 
correct, he can achieve appreciation in the value of his investment. However, if his forecast on the 
rate movement turns out wrong and the rates in fact rise, he would be suffering less losses compared 
to his positioning on the long end, as per the rate anticipation strategy.
Riding the yield curve is another commonly adopted strategy. If the yield curve is positively sloped 
and the dealer expects that the yield curve would be stable over a period of time, he may adopt this 
strategy. This involves investing for a period longer than the investment horizon and liquidating the 
investment at the expiry of the investment horizon. Thus if the investment horizon is one year and 
one year yield is 8%, one could invest in a two year bond (say) at 9% and receive the high yield 
for one year. At the end of one year the residual maturity of the bond is one year. This will now be 
priced corresponding to its lower yield of 8% (assuming the yields have not changed substantially) 
and the investor will be receiving capital appreciation in addition to the higher coupon income at 9%.
The technique of ‘Yield Curve Anticipation’ has its own limitations. The movements of the yield 
curve are very uncertain. The concept is based on a crude but traditional concept of maturity of 
a security; it does not reckon periodic income/cash flows from the security. For this, Yield Curve 
anticipation may have to be combined with the application of the concept of duration for evolving 
strategy for bond portfolio management.
Salient Points
1. Investment and trading activities of banks in bonds should conform to the regulations issued 
by RBI on classification and valuation of investments in addition to other legal provisions 
mainly contained in the Securities Contacts (Regulation) Act.
2. Those securities purchased with the intention of trading have to be classified as ‘Held 
for Trading’ and are subject to regulatory prescriptions regarding holding period, stoploss, etc. The aggregation of such securities held for trading forms the ‘Trading Book’ 
of the bank.
Treasury Management.indb 205 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
206 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
3. A bank which decides to maintain a trading book is expected to have in place proper risk 
management, trading policies, delegation of powers, skills, dealing infrastructure, etc.
4. Basle Committee’s capital adequacy norms prescribe maintenance of capital to cover market 
risk in the Trading Book.
5. Securities, other than those in the trading book, are classified as belonging to the ‘Banking 
Book’. In the case of ‘Banking Book’ the securities are treated on par with other assets as far 
as balance sheet risks are concerned.
6. A buy-and-hold strategy essentially involves investing in securities and holding them until 
maturity or earlier redemption (in case of bonds with call option). The coupon payments from 
the bond are reinvested in similar securities.
7. The potential loss in a bond portfolio arises from two sources, one’s the price risk if the bond 
is sold before maturity and interest rates harden. And the second is reinvestments risk when 
the coupons cannot be reinvested at the expected YTM on account of market interest rates 
declining.
8. A hold-to-maturity strategy ensures that the price risk is eliminated as the bond will fetch 
the par value on redemption at maturity and the investor needs only to bother about the 
creditworthiness of the issuer. However, the reinvestment risk cannot be avoided in a 
BuyandHold strategy as the investor will be able to reinvest the coupons only at the yields 
available in the market at the relevant periods.
9. Consequently, the investor may fail to achieve a realized yield on the investment as expected 
at the time of purchase of the bond.
10. The Buy-and-Hold strategy is attractive for investors who are primarily interested in receiving 
large coupon incomes during the investment horizon which is predefined.
11. Even in the passive portfolio strategy it is possible to plan out the maturities in order to achieve 
better portfolio yields. For instance, ‘Bond Ladder’ strategy presents such an opportunity.
12. ‘The Ladder or Spaced Maturity Strategy’, ‘FrontEnd Loaded Maturity Strategy’, ‘The Backend 
Loaded Strategy’ and ‘The Barbell Strategy’ are some of the investment maturity strategies.
13. Immunization is a strategy to protect the expected yield from the interest rate risk during the 
investment horizon. The duration of the portfolio is monitored to ensure that the duration 
matches the remaining investment period on an ongoing basis.
14. Dedication is a strategy wherein the bond portfolio is structured in such a way that cash flows 
of the portfolio would be available as and when necessary to fund the maturing liabilities.
15. While conducting bond portfolio management important aspects to be taken care of include 
maturity of bond, sector of issuer, credit quality and coupon and tax implication.
16. The level of interest rates (low, high) and anticipation of the pattern of yield curve change 
help in positioning the portfolio as far as investment maturities are concerned.
Let Us Sum Up
Banks are required to categorize the investments into ‘Held to Maturity’ (HTM), ‘Held For Trading’ 
(HFT) and ‘Available For Sale’ (AFS). There are various strategies like ‘buy and hold strategy’, and 
investment maturity strategies, the ladder or spaced maturity strategy, the front-end loaded maturity 
strategy, the back-end loaded maturity strategy and the Barbell strategy, etc. The rate anticipation 
strategy can be refined by adopting yield curve anticipation.
Treasury Management.indb 206 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
BOND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 207
Keywords
HTM, HFT, AFS, Banking book, Trading book, immunization and yield curve anticipation.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is the salient feature of front-end loaded maturity strategy?
(a) Focus on liquidity
(b) Focus on appreciation
(c) Focus on income
(d) Focus on rating
2. What is the salient feature of back-end loaded maturity?
(a) Focus on liquidity
(b) Focus on income
(c) Focus on fees
(d) Focus on rating
3. What is Barbell strategy?
(a) Holding till maturity
(b) Investing in top rated binds
(c) Combination of back-end and front-end loaded maturity strategy
(d) Maintaining oversold position where permitted
4. Which of the following statements is true in respect of fixed income bonds?
(a) High coupon bonds are relatively more price sensitive compared to low coupon bonds 
with similar characteristics.
(b) Prices/Yields are immune to factors such as supply of new issues, call features, credit 
enhancements, etc.
(c) Bonds are generally insensitive to yield changes.
(d) High coupon bonds are relatively less price sensitive compared to low coupon bonds 
with similar characteristics.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 207 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
Treasury Management.indb 208 6/19/2018 6:24:06 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 209
MODULE – C
TREASURY & INTERNATIONAL 
BANKING
Units
16. Treasury Operations – The Global Scenario
17. Exchange Rate Mechanism
18. Risk Analysis and Control
19. Forex Valuation
20. Ethics, Morals and Code of Conduct for the Dealing Room
21. Components of Multi-Currency Balance Sheets
Treasury Management.indb 209 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
Treasury Management.indb 210 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
 TREASURY
OPERATIONS – THE
GLOBAL SCENARIO
STRUCTURE
16.0 Objective
16.1 Treasury Operations: The Global Scenario
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
16
Treasury Management.indb 211 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
212 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
16.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide inputs on the emergence of a global unified financial market.
16.1 TREASURY OPERATIONS – THE GLOBAL SCENARIO
Prior to 1980, national markets were largely independent of each other. During this period the foreign 
exchange market and the Euro market alone had the characteristic of being global in their operations. 
As against this, today there is a greater dependency among national markets. The process of integration 
has been accelerated due to liberalization and deregulation of economies by various countries.
The emergence of a global unified financial market has resulted in the removal of the distinction 
between national markets as also between national and offshore markets. The Indian financial 
markets also started showing signs of integration since 1991. Several measures have been taken by 
Government of India and the Reserve Bank of India, to ensure the integration of financial markets. 
Some of the important measures taken are enumerated below:
(a) Deregulation of interest rates;
(b) Liberalization of exchange control regulations relating to foreign investments in India;
(c) Permission granted to Indian corporates to raise resources in International Financial Markets;
(d) Relaxation of control in the end-use of funds raised abroad by issuance of Global Depository 
Receipts (GDRs), Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs) or by way of External 
Commercial Borrowings (ECBs);
(e) Permission accorded to banks to invest funds mobilized under FCNR(B), EEFC, RFC, etc. in 
overseas markets. This can be termed as the single most important step in integrating the markets;
(f) Allowing banks to maintain balances in foreign currencies and undertake investments in 
overseas markets up to the levels approved by their Board;
(g) Allowing banks to invest the un-deployed FCNR (B) funds in overseas markets in long-term 
fixed income securities for periods not exceeding the maturity of the underlying FCNR (B) 
deposits;
(h) Permitting utilization of Foreign currency funds representing surpluses in the nostro accounts 
for making loans to resident constituents and for extending credit facilities to Indian wholly 
owned subsidiaries/joint ventures abroad;
(i) Permitting overseas foreign currency borrowings including existing External Commercial 
Borrowings and overdrafts in Nostro accounts (not adjusted within five days), up to 100 per cent 
of their unimpaired Tier I capital or USD 10 million (or its equivalent), whichever is higher;
(j) Permitting borrowings outside the limit of 100 per cent of unimpaired Tier I capital or USD 
10 million (or its equivalent), whichever is higher in select cases;
(k) Allowing banks to borrow from International/Multilateral Financial Institutions in which 
Government of India is a shareholding member or which have been established by more than 
one government or have shareholding by more than one government and other international 
organizations;
(l) Permission given to corporates/banks to deal in derivative products for risk management;
(m) Introduction of Repo/Reverse Repo in government and in certain other types of securities. 
This has facilitated in influencing call money rates;
Treasury Management.indb 212 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
TREASURY OPERATIONS – THE GLOBAL SCENARIO FINANCIAL MARKETS213 213
(n) Permission granted to banks to initiate cross currency position overseas;
(o) Introduction of market determined exchange rates and the conscious decision of the government 
to borrow at market related interest rate;
(p) Permission accorded to borrow/lend foreign currencies among authorized dealers;
(q) Freedom to banks to fix open position limits and aggregate gap limits subject to approval of RBI;
(r) Removal of interbank borrowings from the purview of CRR/SLR requirements;
(s) Placing a revised liquidity framework in August, 2014 and deciding to review the operation 
of the Revised Liquidity Management Framework on an ongoing basis to bring about further 
refinements as considered necessary.
Banks can raise rupee resources by sale of foreign currencies for meeting their rupee requirements 
for lending to corporates provided such lending is profitable. Corporates have been permitted to 
borrow in INR and/or in foreign currencies, and, also to alternate between the INR loan and the 
Foreign Currency Loan (FCL). Corporates will compare the cost of borrowings in INR and in foreign 
currencies and decide to borrow in the currency on which the effective cost is less. This aspect has 
also contributed towards the integration of Forex and money markets.
It should however be said here that the swap differentials of currencies may not reflect the interest 
rate differentials as the Indian markets are not totally free from regulations. The Indian financial 
markets will also behave in a similar way as the global financial markets when full convertibility 
in capital account is introduced.
The integration of the various domestic financial markets, and the domestic financial markets with 
the global financial markets will ensure massive cross-border financial flows. Further, the investors 
will have access to various financial markets in the world and have diversified asset portfolios. Apart 
from these, the other impacts of integration are:
(a) There will not be any distinction between the short-term and long-term interest rates in the 
sense that corporates can borrow long-term funds at short-term interest rates if they are raising 
funds on floating rate basis. As a corollary to this, the distinction between short-term and 
long-term funds is also slowly getting reduced.
(b) There will be no difference between the domestic financial markets vis-à-vis international 
financial markets.
(c) The efficiency and the competitiveness of the markets will be reflected in the narrow spread 
between the bid and the ask prices; and because of the narrow spread, convergence of markets 
will take place.
(d) The financial markets will be deeper and more liquid.
(e) Innovations in financial products will take place to suit the requirements of the various market 
players.
(f) Exchange rates as also interest rates will be determined purely on the basis of demand and 
supply.
(g) Forward rates will be purely the inflation interest rate differentials.
The integration of various international financial markets has achieved two objectives: (a) integration 
of domestic financial markets, and (b) supporting financial transactions that are supranational. The 
foreign exchange market is the vehicle through which this is taking place. The cost of covering the 
proceeds of an international transaction in the money market and the forex market will be the same 
Treasury Management.indb 213 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
214 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
if these markets are in equilibrium. The Indian financial markets are not fully integrated because of 
restrictions in capital flows. However, the Government of India as also the Reserve Bank of India have 
been taking a number of measures to ensure phased integration among the various financial markets and 
the markets will eventually integrate only when the full Capital Account Convertibility is permitted.
Let Us Sum Up
The treasury operations in the global scenario post de-regulation have resulted in integration of 
markets. New investment avenues like FCNR (B), EEFC, RFC, etc., and various types of External 
Commercial Borrowings are now available.
Keywords
Deregulation, liberalization, GDR, FCCB, ECB, EEFC, RFC, FCL
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. During liberalization, corporates and banks are allowed to do what for risk management?
(a) deal in derivatives
(b) take mutual help for reducing risk
(c) deal in ECBs
(d) deal in syndications
2. What is the important change in government borrowing during liberalization?
(a) government stopped borrowing
(b) government started borrowing at market determined rates
(c) government directed RBI to borrow
(d) government started borrowing for very short term
3. Following liberalization, what is the treatment given to interbank borrowing for CRR/SLR 
requirements?
(a) interbank borrowings banned
(b) interbank borrowings discouraged
(c) interbank borrowings removed from the purview of CRR/SLR requirements
(d) interbank borrowings given same weight as other liabilities
4. Why swap differentials of currencies do not reflect the interest rate differentials in Indian market?
(a) Indian markets are fully liberalized
(b) Indian markets are fully integrated with foreign markets
(c) Interest rates in India are high
(d) Indian markets are not totally free from regulations
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 214 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 215
 EXCHANGE RATE
MECHANISM
STRUCTURE
17.0 Objective
17.1 Factors Influencing Exchange Rates
17.2 Ready Exchange Rates
17.3 Principal Types of Buying Rates
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
17
Treasury Management.indb 215 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
216 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
17.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide insights into factors affecting exchange rates, to explain the exchange rate mechanism, methods 
of quotation, types of forex transactions, forward rate calculation, various types of exchange rates.
17.1 FACTORS INFLUENCING EXCHANGE RATES
A. Money Market
A tight monetary policy is favourable for the exchange rate because high interest rates will cool 
the economy and drive down inflation attracting funds into the currency. Prospective falls in bond 
yields also support the currency.
B. Fiscal Policy
The budgetary position of the government indicates the soundness of fiscal management. A lax fiscal 
policy weakens the currency.
C. Inflation
High inflation is negative for a currency while low inflation points to a strengthening currency.
D. Trade/Current Account Balance
Trade/current account surplus is bullish for a currency.
E. Attractiveness of Country for Investment
Sound economic fundamentals, stable government, higher international credit rating of the sovereign 
and an international orientation attract foreign investment, strengthen the currency.
F. Forex Reserves
Reserves are the ammunition that can be deployed to ward off speculative attacks on a currency. A 
healthy reserves position enables the central bank to manage the exchange rate in line with its goals 
and domestic economic considerations.
G. Forex Debt
Debt is in absolute terms, in relation to GDP and short-term debt as a percentage of reserves (liquidity 
ratio). High forex debt ratio is considered adverse for the currency.
Treasury Management.indb 216 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
EXCHANGE RATE MECHANISM FINANCIAL MARKETS217 217
H. Agricultural Production/Food Stocks (important in emerging markets)
Threat of high inflation is less if the country is comfortably positioned as far as availability of items 
of mass consumption is concerned. Low inflation risk is considered favourable for the currency.
I. Commodity Prices
Important for commodity intensive, exporting countries, e.g., Australia and South Africa. High 
commodity prices (for oil, gold, base metals, coffee, etc.) favour the exchange rates of major 
producers of these products.
J. Rate of GDP Growth
A higher growth favours currency.
K. Political
Stability of Government is the confluence and interplay of all the above factors – past and prospective – 
which determines currency movements. Different factors predominate at different times, creating 
uncertainty and volatility, which characterise currency markets.
The movements of exchange rates are indeed fascinating. The reasons for the movements are varied. 
A few more causes are listed here below:
(a) Demand and Supply for the individual currency
(b) Relative strengths of the economies for a given pair of currencies
(c) Trade-surplus/deficit vis-a-vis the currencies of the countries concerned
(d) A host of economic factors like Gross National Product, Fiscal Deficit, Balance of Payments 
Position, Industrial Production data, Employment data etc.
(e) Monetary Policies of the Government/Central Bank Political and Security climate
(f ) Inflation rate differentials
(g) Interest rate differentials
It may be added that the interest rate differentials, which are, in turn, a function of the inflation 
differentials, would be more relevant in case of forward rate determinations/movements.
The factors that contribute to the exchange rate movements are quite varied and wide. The demand 
and supply factors are equally important in determining the exchange rates.
The news flashes that periodically tick in will impact the exchange rate movements. Whether a 
particular news item would cause any movement in the exchange rate typically depends upon the 
way in which the same is perceived by the market forces. Normally, by the time the news is out, it is 
acted upon and absorbed by the market instantaneously. Anticipated news, by the time it is formally 
announced, may have no impact in the market as the same would have been already factored into the 
exchange rate movement. The movement, at best, could be restricted to the extent of variance between 
the anticipated news and the actual news. The market sentiments play a definite role in causing the 
Treasury Management.indb 217 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
218 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
upward/downward movement of exchange rates in the short run although the fundamentals of the 
economy play a major role in the medium to long term. Market sentiments have their due place in 
determination of exchange rate in the short run even though they may not be, at times, adequately 
backed by common logic/ reasoning, and it may be such that the views could be, in reality, contrary 
to the perceptions based on economic fundamentals.
17.1.1 Exchange Mechanism
Foreign exchange dealing is a business in which foreign currency is the commodity. Foreign currency 
is not a legal tender outside the country of issue. The US dollar cannot be used for settlement of debts 
in India; nevertheless, it has value. The value of US dollar is like the value of any other commodity. 
Therefore, foreign currency can also be considered as the commodity in foreign exchange dealings.
17.1.2 Purchase and Sale Transactions
Trading has two aspects: (i) Purchase and (ii) Sale.
A trader has to purchase goods from his suppliers which he sells to his customers.
An Authorised Dealer purchases as well as sells the commodity, i.e., Foreign Currency.
Two most important points while dealing in foreign exchange are that:
(i) The transaction is always viewed from the bank’s point of view; and
(ii) The item referred to is the commodity, i.e., foreign currency.
Therefore, when we talk about purchase it means the bank has purchased foreign currency, and while 
we say sale, it means the bank has sold foreign currency.
In a purchase transaction the bank acquires foreign currency and parts with home currency.
In a sale transaction the bank parts with foreign currency and acquires home currency.
17.1.3 EXCHANGE QUOTATIONS
There are two methods:
1. Exchange rate, expressed as the price per unit of foreign currency in terms of the home 
currency is known as the ‘Home currency quotation’ or ‘Direct Quotation’.
2. Exchange rate expressed as the price per unit of home currency in terms of the foreign currency 
is known as the ‘Foreign Currency Quotation’ or ‘Indirect Quotation’.
Direct Quotation is used in New York and other foreign exchange markets, and Indirect Quotation 
is used in London foreign exchange market.
In India, till 1966 direct quotation was prevalent. After the devaluation of the rupee in 1966, indirect 
quotation was adopted. Effective from August 2, 1993, India has switched over to direct method of 
quotation. This switch over from indirect to direct method is to establish transparency in exchange 
rates in India.
Treasury Management.indb 218 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
EXCHANGE RATE MECHANISM FINANCIAL MARKETS219 219
17.1.4 Direct Quotation: Buy Low, Sell High
The prime motive of any trader is to make profit. By purchasing the commodity at lower price and selling it 
at a higher price, a trader earns profit. In foreign exchange, the banker buys the foreign currency at a lesser 
price and sells it at a higher price. Therefore, in DIRECT Quotation, the maxim is Buy Low, Sell High.
17.1.5 Indirect Quotation: Buy High, Sell Low
A trader for a fixed amount of investment would acquire more units of the commodity when he purchases, 
and for the same amount he would part with lesser units of the commodity when he sells. Hence, the 
maxim that the dealer has to follow in the case of an indirect quotation is ‘Buy High, Sell Low’.
17.1.6 Two-way Quotation
The foreign exchange quotation between banks will have two rates: one at which the quoting bank is 
willing to buy and the other at which it is willing to sell foreign currency. In case of direct quotation, 
the maxim ‘Buy Low and Sell High’ applies. The lower of the two rates is the buying rate and higher 
is the selling rate. In case of indirect quotation, the rule ‘Buy High and Sell Low’ applies. The higher 
of the two rates is the buying rate and the lower rate is the selling rate.
The buying rate is also known as the bid rate and the selling rate as the offer rate; the difference 
between the two is known as spread, which is profit for the quoting party. The quoting party is known 
as the “Price Giver” and the party facing or receiving the quote is known as the “Price Taker”.
17.1.7 Spot and Forward Transactions
Bank ‘A’ agrees to buy USD 100,000 from Bank ‘B’. The actual exchange of currencies, i.e. payment 
of rupees and receipt of US dollars, under the contract may take place:
(a) on the same day, or
(b) The next working day,
(c) two days later, or
(d) sometime later, say after a month.
(a) On the same day
Where the agreement to buy and sell is agreed upon and settled on the same date, the transaction is 
known as CASH transaction or value today transaction. The terminology is T+0 settlement.
The rupee equivalent of the transaction will be paid by bank ‘A’ in favour of bank ‘B’. Foreign 
currency payment is effected, say at New York. ‘A’ Bank maintains an account in US dollar at 
New York with some other bank. Bank ‘B’ maintains a similar account with some other bank there. 
Bank ‘B’ would advise its correspondent bank through tested SWIFT message to pay to the bank 
maintaining Bank ‘A’ Bank account. USD 100,000 for credit to the account of Bank ‘A’ with them.
Treasury Management.indb 219 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
220 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(b) The Next Working Day
When the Trade is concluded today and settled for value the next working day, it is referred as TOM 
value trade. The terminology is for T+1 settlement.
(c) Two days later
This procedure involves some time; therefore two days are allowed to ensure that foreign exchange 
is delivered by crediting nostro account of a bank.
For example if the contract is made on Monday, the delivery should take place on Wednesday. If 
Wednesday is holiday, the delivery will take place on the next day, i.e. Thursday. Rupee payment is 
also made on the same day the foreign currency is received. The transaction where the exchange of 
currencies takes place two days after the date of the contract is known as the SPOT transaction. The 
terminology is T+2 settlement. A majority of forex transactions are ‘spot’ transactions across the globe.
(d) Some days later, say after a month
The delivery of foreign currency and payment in rupees take place after one month. The transaction 
in which the exchange of currencies takes place at a specified future date is known as a forward 
transaction. The forward transaction can be for delivery one or two or three months, etc. A forward 
contract for delivery one month means the exchange of currencies will take place after one month from 
the date of contract. A forward contract for delivery two months means the exchange of currencies 
will take place after two months and so on.
17.1.8 Forward Margin/Swap Points
Forward rate may be the same as the spot rate for the currency. Then it is said to be at par with the spot 
rate. But this rarely happens. More often the forward rate for a currency may be costlier or cheaper 
than its spot rate. The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate is known as the forward 
margin or swap points. The forward margin may be either at a premium or at a discount. If the forward 
margin is at a premium, the foreign currency will be costlier under forward rate than under the spot 
rate. If the forward margin is at discount, the foreign currency will be cheaper for forward delivery 
than for spot delivery. Generally, the forward premium is a function of the interest rate differential 
between the two countries, which form the currency pair in the quotation. Factors like expectation 
about demand – supply also assume significance in the forward rate. It may be noted that if there are 
restrictions on free trade of foreign currency or interest rates in the country are administered/managed, 
then the forward premium/discount may not exactly represent the interest rate differential.
17.1.9 Direct Quotation
Premium is added to spot rate to arrive at the forward rate. This is done for both types of transactions, i.e., 
either sale or purchase transaction. Discount is deducted from the spot rate to arrive at the forward rate.
Treasury Management.indb 220 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
EXCHANGE RATE MECHANISM FINANCIAL MARKETS221 221
17.1.10 Interpretation of Inter-bank Quotations
The market quotation for a currency consists of the spot rate and the forward margin. The outright 
forward rate has to be calculated by loading the forward margin into the spot rate. For example, US 
dollar is quoted in the inter-bank market on a given day as under:
Spot 1 USD = `64.1000/1300
Spot/November 0200/0500
Spot/December 1500/1800
The following points should be noted in interpreting the above quotation:
1. The first statement is the spot rate for dollar. The quoting bank’s buying rate is `64.1000 and 
selling rate is `64.1300.
2. The second and third statements are forward margins for forward delivery during the months 
of November and December respectively. Spot/November rate is valid for delivery end 
November. Spot/December rate is valid for delivery end December.
3. The margin is expressed in points, i.e., 0.0025 of the currency. Therefore, the forward margin 
for November is 2 paise and 5 paise. Forward margin for December is 15 paise and 18 pasie.
4. It can be seen that under direct quotation, the first rate in the spot quotation is for buying and 
second for selling the foreign currency. Correspondingly, in the forward margin, the first rate 
relates to buying and second to the selling. Taking Spot/November as an example, the margin 
of 2 paise is for purchase and 5 paise is for sale of foreign currency.
Where the forward margin for a month is given in ascending order, as in the quotation above, it 
indicates that the forward currency is at premium. The outright forward rates are arrived at by adding 
the forward margin to the spot rates.
The outright forward rates of dollar can be derived from the above quotation as follows:
Buying Rate Selling Rate
November December November December
Spot Rate 64.1000 64.1000 64.1300 64.1300
Add: Premium 0.0200 0.1500 0.0500 0.1800
Forward Rate 64.1200 64.2500 64.1800 64.3100
From the above calculations, we arrive at the following outright rates,
Spot delivery USD1 = `64.1000 `64.1300
Forward November USD1 = `64.1200 `64.1800
Forward December USD1 = `64.2500 `64.3100
If the forward margin is at discount, it would be indicated by quoting the forward margin in the 
descending order.
The conclusion is that:
If Forward margin is in the ascending order, the Premium is to be added to the spot rate.
If Forward margin is in the descending order, the Discount is to be deducted from the spot rate.
Treasury Management.indb 221 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
222 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Factors determining the forward margin, as the difference between the spot rate and forward rate 
of a currency, make the forward currency cheaper or costly as compared to the spot currency. 
The difference in the rate of interest prevailing at different financial centers is a dominant factor 
determining forward margin. Other factors that affect forward margin are demand and supply of 
currency, speculation about spot rates and exchange control regulations.
(1) Rate of Interest: The difference in the rate of interest prevailing at the home center and the 
concerned foreign center determines the forward margin. If the rate of interest at the foreign center is 
higher than that prevailing at the home center, the forward margin would be at discount. Conversely, 
if the rate of interest at the foreign center is lower than that at the home center, the forward margin 
would be at premium. This can be explained as follows:
When the bank enters into a forward sale contract with the customer, it arranges for delivery of the 
foreign currency on the due date by keeping the funds in deposit at the foreign center concerned. 
If the interest rate is higher at the foreign center, forward rate is at a discount. If the interest rate is 
lower at the foreign center, the bank suffers a net loss and the loss is passed on to the customer by 
quoting the forward rate at a premium.
Illustration:
The spot rate for US dollar is `64.25. The rate of interest at Mumbai is 6% p.a. and at New York it is 
2.5% p.a. The bank has to quote 3 months selling rate to a customer. Assuming that the operation is 
for USD 10000 and the entire interest loss/gain is passed on to the customer, the forward rate can be 
calculated.
To meet the needs of the customer, the bank may buy spot US dollar and deposit them in New York 
for 3 months so that it can deliver on due date the required dollar amount. The operations involved 
are as under:
Purchase dollar and Borrows in Mumbai to pay
Invest for 3 months USD 10000 for dollar at `64.25
`64.25 × 10000 `642500
Interest earned for Interest payable for
3 months at 2.5% p.a. USD 62.5 3 months at 12% `9637.50
After 3 months
Receive USD 10062,50 Pay `652137.50
The bank should be able to get `652137.50 against USD 10,062.50. Therefore the rate quoted is
`652137.50/10062.50 = `64.81
Thus the forward premium is (64.81 – 64.25) = `0.56.
This can also be calculated approximately by the following formula:
Forward Margin
Spot Rate × Forward Period × Interest Differential/100 × Time
[{64.25 × 3 × (6 – 2.5)}/(100 × 12)] = 0.56
Treasury Management.indb 222 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
EXCHANGE RATE MECHANISM FINANCIAL MARKETS223 223
If suitable conditions prevail in the market, the rate of interest would exert a greater influence than 
any other factor and the forward margin would tend to be compensated by the forward margin. But, 
in practice, it is hard to find this, and the forward margin at any particular time is determined by 
other factors listed below.
(2) Demand and Supply: Forward margin is also determined by the demand for and the 
supply of foreign currency. If the demand for foreign currency is more than its supply, 
forward rate would be at premium. If the supply exceeds the demand, the forward rate would 
be at discount.
(3) Speculation about Spot Rates: Since the forward rates are based on spot rates any speculation 
about the movement of spot rates would influence forward rates also. If the exchange dealers anticipate 
the spot rate to appreciate, the forward rate would be quoted at premium. If they expect the spot rate 
to depreciate, the forward rates would be quoted at a discount.
(4) Exchange Regulations: Exchange control regulations may put some conditions on the 
forward dealings and may influence the effect of the above factors on the forward margin. 
Such restrictions may be with respect to keeping of balances abroad, borrowing overseas, 
etc. Intervention in the forward market by the central bank may also be done to influence the 
forward margin.
17.2 READY EXCHANGE RATES
The foreign exchange dealing of a bank with its customer is known as ‘merchant business’ and the 
exchange rate at which the transaction takes place is the ‘merchant rate’. The merchant business 
in which the contract with the customer to buy or sell foreign exchange is agreed to and executed 
on the same day is known as ready transactions or cash transactions. As in the case of inter-bank 
transactions, a value next day contract is deliverable on the next business day and a spot contract 
is deliverable on the second succeeding business day following the date of the contract. Most of 
the transactions with customers are on ready basis. In practice, the terms ready and spot are used 
synonymously to refer to transactions concluded and executed on the same day.
17.2.1 Basis for Merchant Rates
When the bank buys foreign exchange from the customer, it sells the same in the inter-bank 
market at a better rate and thus makes a profit out of the deal. In the inter-bank market, the bank 
will accept the rate as dictated by the market. It can therefore sell foreign exchange in the market 
at the market buying rate for the currency concerned. Thus the inter-bank buying rate forms the 
basis for quotation of buying rate by the bank to its customer. Similarly, when the bank sells 
foreign exchange to the customers, it meets the commitment by purchasing the required foreign 
exchange from the inter-bank market. It can acquire foreign exchange from the market at the 
market selling rate. Therefore, the inter-bank selling rate forms the basis for quotation of selling 
rate to the customer by the bank.
The inter-bank rate on the basis of which the bank quotes its merchant rate is known as base rate.
Treasury Management.indb 223 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
224 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
17.2.2 Exchange Margin
If the bank quotes the base rate to the customer, it makes no profit. On the other hand, there are 
administrative costs involved. Further, the deal with the customer takes place first. Only after acquiring 
or selling the foreign exchange from/to the customer, the bank goes to the inter-bank market to sell 
or acquire the foreign exchange required to cover the deal with the customer. An hour or two might 
have lapsed by this time. The exchange rates are fluctuating constantly and by the time the deal 
with the market is concluded, the exchange rate might have turned adverse to the bank. Therefore, 
sufficient margin should be built into the rate to cover the administrative cost, cover the possible 
exchange fluctuation and provide some profit on the transaction to the bank. This is done by loading 
exchange margin to the base rate. The quantum of margin that is built into the rate is determined by 
the bank concerned, keeping with the market trend.
{Up to 1995, the exchange margin included in the merchant rates was prescribed by FEDAI.}
17.2.3 Fineness of Quotation
The exchange rate is quoted up to 4 decimals in multiples of 0.0025. The quotation is for one unit of 
foreign currency except in the case of Japanese yen, Indonesian rupiah, Kenyan shilling, and currencies 
of Asian Clearing Union Countries (Bangladesh taka, Myanmar kyat, Iranian riyal, Pakistani rupee 
and Sri Lankan rupee) where the quotation is per 100 units of the foreign currency concerned.
17.3 PRINCIPAL TYPES OF BUYING RATES
In a purchase transaction, the bank acquires foreign exchange from the customer and pays him in 
Indian rupees. Some of the purchase transactions result in the bank acquiring foreign exchange 
immediately, while some involve delay in the acquisition of foreign exchange. For instance, if the 
bank pays a demand draft drawn on it by its correspondent bank, there is no delay because the foreign 
correspondent bank would already have credited the nostro account of the paying bank while issuing 
the demand draft. On the other hand, if the bank purchases an ‘On demand bill’ from the customer, 
it has first to be sent to the drawee’s place for collection. The bill will be sent to the correspondent 
bank for collection. The correspondent bank will present the bill to the drawee. The nostro account of 
the bank with its correspondent bank will be credited only when the drawee makes payment against 
the bill. Suppose this takes 20 days. The bank will acquire foreign exchange only after 20 days.
Depending upon the time of realization of foreign exchange by the bank, two types of buying rates 
are quoted in India, they are:
(i) TT Buying Rate, and
(ii) Bill Buying Rate.
17.3.1 TT Buying Rate (TT Stands for Telegraphic Transfer)
This is the rate applied when the transaction does not involve any delay in realization of the foreign 
exchange by the bank. In other words, the nostro account of the bank would already have been 
Treasury Management.indb 224 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
EXCHANGE RATE MECHANISM FINANCIAL MARKETS225 225
credited. The rate is calculated by deducting from the inter-bank buying rate the exchange margin 
as determined by the bank. Though the name implies telegraphic transfer, it is not necessary that 
proceeds of the transaction is received by telegram. Any transaction where no delay is involved in 
the bank acquiring the foreign exchange will be done at the TT rate.
17.3.2 Transactions where TT Rate is applied
(i) Payment of demand drafts, mail transfers, telegraphic transfers, etc., drawn on the bank where 
bank’s nostro account is already credited.
(ii) Foreign bills collected. When a foreign bill is taken for collection, the bank pays the exporter 
only when the importer pays for the bill and the bank’s nostro abroad is credited.
(iii) Cancellation of foreign exchange sold earlier. For instance the purchaser of a bank draft drawn 
on New York may later request the bank to cancel the draft and refund the money to him. In 
such case, the bank will apply the TT buying rate to determine the rupee amount payable to 
the customer.
 TT Buying Rate is worked out as follows:
 Dollar/Rupee market spot buying rate (say) : `64.2538
 Less : Exchange Margin (–) : `0.0200
T.T. Buying Rate : `64.2338
Rounded off to nearest multiple of 0.0025 : `64.2325
17.3.3 Bill Buying Rate
This is the rate to be applied when a foreign bill is purchased. When a bill is purchased, the proceeds 
will be realized by the bank after the bill is presented to the drawee at the overseas center. In the case 
of a usance bill, the proceeds will be realized on the due date of the bill which includes the transit 
period and the usance period of the bill.
If a sight bill on London is purchased, the realization will be after a period of about 20 days (transit 
period). The bank would be able to dispose of the foreign exchange only after this period. Therefore, the rate quoted to the customer would be based not on the spot rate in the inter-bank market, 
but on the interbank rate for 20 days forward. Likewise, if the bill purchased is 30 days usance bill, 
then the bill will be realized after about 50 days (20 days transit plus 30 days usance bill, period). 
Therefore, the bank would be able to dispose of foreign exchange only after 50 days; the rate to the 
customer would be based on the inter-bank rate for 50 days forward.
Two points need consideration in loading the bills buying rate with forward margin. First, forward 
margin is normally available for periods of a calendar month and not for 20 days, etc. Secondly, 
forward margin may be at a premium or discount. Premium is to be added to the spot rate and discount 
should be deducted from it. While making calculations, the bank will see that the period for which 
forward margin is loaded is beneficial to the bank.
Thus, where the foreign currency is at premium, while calculating the bill buying rate, the bank will 
round off the transit and usance periods to the lower month.
Treasury Management.indb 225 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
226 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Where the foreign currency is at discount, while calculating the bill buying rate, the bank will round 
off the transit and usance periods to a higher month.
Logically, while quoting selling rates, i.e., TT selling rates and bill selling rates the bank will round 
of the transit and usance periods to the higher month if the currency is at premium and round off 
the transit and usance periods to the lower month if the currency is at discount.
Let Us Sum Up
Factors like conditions in money market, fiscal policy, inflation, trade/current account balance, 
forex reserves, forex debt, commodity prices, rate of GDP growth, political conditions, all influence 
exchange rates. There are two methods of quotation direct and indirect quotation. The calculation 
of forward rates is explained.
Keywords
Direct and indirect quotation, two way quotation, spot, cash and forward, forward margin, swap 
points, TT buying and Bill buying.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is direct quotation in foreign exchange?
(a) Foreign currency unit is expressed in number of home currency units.
(b) Home currency unit is expressed in number of foreign currency units.
(c) Foreign currency unit is expressed in another foreign currency unit which is expressed 
as number of units to home currency.
(d) When one foreign currency unit is quoted as weighted average of trades between the two 
countries.
2. When a foreign exchange transaction is contracted on Monday and settlement takes place on 
Wednesday, how is the transaction known in foreign exchange market?
(a) TOM transaction
(b) Spot transaction
(c) Forward transaction
(d) Outright transaction
3. If the supply of foreign currency exceeds demand, then how is foreign currency quoted?
(a) At a premium
(b) At par
(c) At a discount
(d) Unquoted till demand and supply equal
Treasury Management.indb 226 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
EXCHANGE RATE MECHANISM FINANCIAL MARKETS227 227
4. What is the general rule regarding application of TT Buying rate in foreign exchange 
transactions?
(a) When cash is tendered TT buy rate is applied.
(b) When FCNR deposit is accepted, TT buy rate is apllied.
(c) When a DD is issued, TT buy rate is applied.
(d) When Nostro account is credited, TT buy rate is applied.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 227 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
 RISK ANALYSIS AND 
CONTROL
STRUCTURE
18.0 Objective
18.1 Introduction
18.2 Risk Management: Overview
18.3 Factors Affecting Exchange Rates
18.4 Factors Affecting Interest Rates
18.5 Operational Risk
18.6 Mitigation
18.7 Financial Risks
18.8 Risks in Treasury and Their Management: Some Examples
18.9 Risk Management: RBI Guidelines/Norms
18.10 Asset-Liability Pricing
18.11 Adding New Products
18.12 Risk Analysis and Control
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
18
Treasury Management.indb 228 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS229 229
18.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide necessary inputs on various types of risks like credit risk, operational risk, market risk, 
liquidity risk, and their mitigation, providing information on tools like VaR, RBI guidelines on risk 
management, Asset-liability pricing, to provide essential information on overnight, day light limits, 
and also to inform about legal risk.
18.1 INTRODUCTION
Risk profile of the treasury activities consists of two broad categories, viz., Financial Risk and 
Operational Risk.
Financial risks include market risks (interest rate risk, price risk, basis risk), credit risks, liquidity 
risks, etc.
Operational Risks include systemic risk, compliance risk, legal risks, IT risks, fraud risks, etc.
For mitigation of such risks, various prudential guidelines prescribed by the regulators and internal 
policies and procedures laid down by the management are to be scrupulously followed.
Most of the treasury activities, like investments in bonds, forex positions, etc., predominantly involve 
high degree of market risks than credit risks.
18.2 RISK MANAGEMENT: OVERVIEW
Treasury and risk management is closely related. In the past, risk management was a part of treasury 
management and the rest of the activities of the bank were not much concerned with risk management. 
However, some of the well documented financial failures in the past and post Basel I & II norms 
and post financial crisis, risk management has, on the contrary, gone beyond treasury. Capital 
adequacy has become a corner stone of risk management as banks have been mandated to maintain 
adequate capital so that financial stability is given more importance. Risk management has now 
become an organization pervasive issue and is pursued in greater detail. Every bank has a separate 
risk management unit (known as risk organization). Risk management is removed from the front 
offices as pursuit of profit or price, it is believed comes in the way of objective risk management. 
Risk management is, thus, involved in stipulating rules, regulations, and practices such that risk is 
contained to the extent the management considers appropriate. Managements indicate the extent of 
risk taking ability (also known as risk appetitive) by indicative methods such as duration, convexity, 
VaR and the like. In order that the risk estimate is not breached the banks follow exposure norms, 
dealer limits, concurrent audit, separate back office, etc.
It should, however, be remembered that the risk management investments, hedge and other risk 
management policies are operationalized by treasury department. Treasury is the most important 
function when it comes to managing liquidity. Treasury is also involved in advising the corporate 
and high net worth clients in investment and risk management. Treasury sells hedge and treasury 
products suited to its corporate clients. Corporate clients will be happy so long as they make the extra 
Rupee or Dollar, but once they see some loss they will cry foul. This is indeed a difficult area for 
treasury. As such the role of treasury in risk management is critical in the overall risk management.
Treasury Management.indb 229 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
230 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Risk in treasury can be studied in terms of liquidity, price, interest rate, and operational issues. 
Operational issues arise on account of technology failures and violation of internal guidelines on 
the treasury functions. Market innovations keep occurring at regular intervals, and the guidelines 
lag the innovations. Take the case of the CDS and the recent financial crisis. It is well known that 
the volumes in CDS went sky rocketing and before appropriate norms could be developed, much 
damage was done. In these circumstances treasury and risk management should work together such 
that repeat of such events can be avoided. Taking position in hedge and derivative products themselves 
could result in some risk as hedge and counter hedge cost could become runaway issues. Pursuit of 
speculative profits and trading for profits are best done when there is not only stop loss limits, but 
also clear cut booking profit practices.
Risk management could be studied in terms of preventive measures and policies. The following table 
gives a bird’s eye view of the treasury risk, measures of mitigation. These instruments are covered 
separately in various chapters of this book.
Risk Manifest in Preventive Measures Points to remember
Liquidity Default in investment/
instrument resulting in cash 
flow problems
1. Investing in appropriate credit 
rated investments
2. Exposure norms help in 
diversification such that the impact 
of default is reduced
Points to remember
1. Cost of risk management 
could impact the yield. Often 
not transparent
Inability to market or 
exit an investment due to 
market apathy – could result 
in failure to meet one’s 
commitments
1. As indicated investing in high 
rated investments
2 . H a v i n g a l t e r n a t e c a s h 
arrangements
1. Credit rating does not 
guarantee performance and the 
changes in the rating lags the 
market.
2. Often the rating down grade is 
very quick and the market dries 
up before the rating downgrade.
3. Also, instruments are not 
traded on rating related yields
Prepayment (receipt) of 
debts by borrowers
1. Carefully plan put and call 
options
2. Indicate penal charges for 
prepayment
Such prepayment happens when 
the contracted rates are lower 
than what is offered in the 
investment. As the market rates 
are lower the prepayment will 
result in ALM mismatch for 
the period for which it will be 
invested.
Alternate investments may have 
different risk profiles
Interest rate risk 
in fixed income 
securities
1. A change in market rates 
of interest could impact the 
price of the security at the 
time of selling.
2. Changes in price at the 
time of balance sheet could 
impact the financials
1. Use tools such as duration and 
convexity to control risk
2. Practice strict stop loss policies 
to avoid a slide in the price
3. Practice asset valuation based 
on conservative approach. RBI 
has indicated policies for HTM, 
AFS, and HFT securities.
1. Banks liabilities, as per the 
extant policy is almost fully 
made of fixed rate liabilities. 
As against this the assets could 
be floating rates. Banks must do 
periodical analysis and arrive at 
the mix of liabilities such that 
acquisition is focused on ALM
Treasury Management.indb 230 6/19/2018 6:24:07 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS231 231
Risk Manifest in Preventive Measures Points to remember
Interest rate risk in 
re-pricing floating 
rate assets
1. Forward Rate Agreements
Price risk in 
investmentsequity
Volatile Prices 1. Stop Loss Policy
2. Take appropriate position F&O 
market
3. Exposure limits
Price risk in 
foreign Exchange 
Market
Changes in Currency prices 1. Keeping the exposure fully 
covered in spot and forward 
market
2. Forward, Futures, and Options 
contract to manage the currency 
risk
3. Have Open Position Limits 
consistent with risk appetite.
Operational risk Over Trading- connivance 
among dealers
I.T infrastructure Failure
1. Segregation of front, middle 
and back office
2. Dealer wise exposures
3. Checks and Balances- Audit
4. Back up servers and Data 
Recovery System
Bad delivery Trade or purchase or sale not 
going through
1. Approved and Diversified 
counterparties
2. Exposure Norms
3. Trading through approved 
channels such as exchange as a 
counter party
4. Trading through market 
makers like Primary Dealers
18.3 FACTORS AFFECTING EXCHANGE RATES
• Macroeconomic, social and political influences
• Exchange control regulations and exchange rate policy
• Balance of payment and balance of trade
• Relative price and inflation
• Assets market
• Interest rate difference between the relative currencies
• Anticipations and economic estimates of input variables
• Other factors, e.g., political developments like war, change in the government, official 
intervention, restriction on capital flows, change in productivity levels, fiscal and monetary 
policy of the government and underlying psychology of the market operators.
Treasury Management.indb 231 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
232 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
18.4 FACTORS AFFECTING INTEREST RATES
• Macroeconomic, social and political influences
• Fiscal and monetary policy measures of the Government and central bank
• Demand for money, which is dependent on growth rate, economy, etc.
• Government borrowings
• Supply of money, depending on price level, incentives to save, etc.
• Inflation rate
Treasury risk management assumes importance for two reasons:
(i) The nature of treasury activity is such that profits are generated out of market opportunities, 
and market risk is present at every step.
(ii) Treasury is also responsible for balance sheet management, i.e. market risk generated by other 
operational departments.
Bank management is highly sensitive to treasury risk, as the risk arises out of the high leverage 
the treasury business enjoys. The risks of losing capital are much higher than, say, in the credit 
business. In the case of a loan, the risk is limited to the principal and interest, which may be 
lost, fully or partly, over a period of time. The Bank’s capacity to extend loans is limited by 
the high capital requirement, a minimum of 9% of the loan amount; hence, the losses are also 
correspondingly limited. Treasury on the other hand has a very low capital requirement, which 
is known as high leverage. For instance, treasury can buy and sell foreign exchange of value of 
`1000 crores, with as little capital as `90 lakhs. But at the same time, an adverse movement of 
the exchange rate by `1 may result in a loss of `10 crore to the bank – which is a straight loss 
of capital.
A second reason for management concern is the large size of transactions done at the sole 
discretion of the treasurer. Certain market practices like minimum market lot and dealers’ 
anxiety and hurry to book more profit induce them to resort to big ticket transactions. A single 
transaction may range from `5 crores to `50 crores (even more in larger banks). The limits are 
intimated to the treasurer in advance, and individual market deals rarely need specific approval 
from the management. If the treasurer commits an error of judgment, consequent losses to the 
bank would be enormous.
A third factor closely connected to the above is that the losses in treasury business materialise in 
a very short term, and, the transactions, once confirmed, are irrevocable – hence, no corrective 
actions are possible. Particularly in foreign exchange, the market reacts so fast that profits or 
losses on trade deals are almost instantaneous. It is for the above reasons that not only bank 
management, but also the central banks are concerned with treasury risk management. The 
conventional control and supervisory measures, mostly in the nature of preventive steps, can be 
divided into three parts:
• Organizational controls
• Exposure ceiling
• Limits on trading positions and stop-loss limits
Treasury Management.indb 232 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS233 233
18.5 OPERATIONAL RISK
This covers the entire gamut of the transaction cycle from dealing to custody. Operational risk can 
again be divided into those arising from:
• System deficiencies, authorizations, based on approved delegation of powers, must integrate 
with work and document flows. This ensures that individual payments and deliveries by the 
bank are entirely deal/transaction supported;
• non-compliance with laid-down procedures and authorizations for dealing, settlement, and 
custody;
• fraudulent practices involving deals and settlements;
• IT involving software quality, hardware uptime; and
• legal risks due to inadequate definitions and coverage of covenants, and responsibilities of 
the bank and counter party in contracts and agreements.
18.6 MITIGATION
• Dealers must operate strictly within the single deal, portfolio and prudential limits set for the 
instrument and counter party. Stop loss and risk norms of duration and value at risk should 
be adhered to at all times.
• No deviation from approved and implemented work and document flows should be allowed.
• All the necessary authorizations must accompany documents as they pass from one stage of 
the transaction cycle to the next.
• Delegation of powers must be strictly adhered to. Deals or transactions exceeding powers 
must be immediately and formally ratified in accordance with management/board edicts on 
ratification.
• The prescribed settlement systems in each product/instrument and market must be followed. 
Deviations from delivery and payment practices should not be allowed.
• Computer systems – hardware, networks, and software – should have adequate backups. They 
should be put through periodic stress tests to determine their ability to cope with increased 
volumes, and external data combinations.
• Custodian’s creditworthiness is paramount in demat systems of records of ownership and 
transfer. Custodial relationships should be only with those with the highest credit rating.
• Counter party authorizations/powers of attorney must be kept current.
• The list of approved brokers should be reviewed periodically to satisfy the bank’s credit 
standards and ethics. In equity transactions, the broker is the counter party. Settlement must 
be of the delivery against payment type.
• Deal, transaction, and legal documentation should be adequate to protect the bank, especially 
in one-off transactions and structured deals.
18.7 FINANCIAL RISKS
The following identifies and defines individual financial risks:
Treasury Management.indb 233 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
234 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
18.7.1 Credit Risk
• The oldest of all financial risks in its simplest form, refers to the possibility of the issuer of a debt 
instrument being unable to honor his interest payments and/or principal repayment obligations. 
But, in modern financial markets, it includes non-performance by a counter party in a variety of 
off- balance sheet contracts such as forward contracts, interest rate swaps and currency swaps, 
and counter party risk in the inter-bank market. These have necessitated prescribing maximum 
exposure limits for individual counter parties for fund and non-fund exposures.
18.7.1.1 Mitigation
• Better Credit appraisal. Careful analysis of cash flows of the business before investing.
• Investing only in rated instruments. Rating companies must be reputed in their line of business.
• Risk pricing.
• Credit enhancement through margin arrangements, escrow accounts, etc.
• Obtaining Guarantees/letters of credit from rated entities.
• Adequate financial and/or physical assets as security.
• Adherence to the Exposure limits by counter party, industry, location, business group, on and 
off balance sheet.
• Diversification by industry, sector, location, and so on.
• Exposure limits for individual bank counter parties for funded/non-funded assets.
• Reputation and image of counterparties.
• Collateralization of transactions through repos.
18.7.2 Liquidity Risk
• An asset that cannot be converted into cash when needed is liquidity note, which is the normal 
characteristic of the vast majority of bonds.
There is also the risk of scarcity of funds in the market. This could happen, for example, when the 
RBI deliberately tightens liquidity, by increasing CRR, selling securities or forex.
A third situation is when a bank’s creditworthiness becomes suspect, and there are no willing lenders, 
even though there is no liquidity shortage in the market.
18.7.2.1 Mitigation
• Increase the proportion of investments in liquid securities.
• Increase the proportion of investments in near-maturity high quality instruments.
• Maintain credit rating, reputation, and image.
• Securitize loan portfolio of large as well as small borrowers.
18.7.3 Market Risk
• A generic term to describe both interest rate risk and event (‘systemic’) risk.
Treasury Management.indb 234 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS235 235
18.7.4 Event Risk
• The risk that an unexpected happening, which is extreme, sudden or dramatic (e.g., the 
11 September terrorist attacks, tsunami), will cause an all-round fall in market prices.
18.7.4.1 Mitigation
Increase the proportion of assets in risk-free, high quality investments of short maturity.
18.7.5 Interest Rate Risk (Balance Sheet)
This affects both the assets and liabilities of a bank. On an overall basis, the maturity gaps between 
assets and liabilities lead to the risk of a contraction of spreads if interest rates fall and assets mature 
before liabilities, or interest rates rise and liabilities mature before assets.
Apart from interest rate, risk originating from the disparity in the maturities of assets and liabilities, 
there is also basis risk, because interest rate determination may differ. For example, if assets are 
MIBOR-linked (floating rate), while liabilities are fixed rate and MIBOR falls, asset yields also do, 
compressing the spreads. Mitigation of basis risk will involve converting (in the above instance) 
assets to fixed rate (or converting liabilities to MIBOR-linked). Instruments used are interest rate 
swaps, futures, and FRAs.
(a) Interest Rate Risk: Investment/Trading Book
The prices of bonds are affected by changes in interest rates. When interest rates go down, their prices 
go up. The opposite happens when interest rates rise. The most price-affected bonds in response 
to rate movements are those of long maturity – indeed maturity and price changes are strongly, 
positively correlated.
Duration measures the price sensitivity of a bond to changes in interest rates. Increasing duration 
makes the bond portfolio more sensitive to interest rates, while decreasing duration reduces it. As 
bond prices and interest rates are inversely related, if the bank expects interest rates to fall, subject 
to market liquidity, it will have to increase duration by buying long-dated securities. Conversely, in 
anticipation of a rise in interest rates, the bank will lower duration by selling long-dated securities. 
Banks may adopt duration as a measure of risk, and maintain the duration of its portfolio at a given 
level to minimise or restrict risk.
(b) Value-at-risk (Var)
Value-at-risk indicates the possible maximum loss which will be suffered in a specified period, and at 
a specified confidence level from an adverse movement in the price of a security (or exchange rate), 
given historic data on the price behavior of the security (exchange rate) or assessment of likely future 
market movements. The concept is applied to calculate the risk content of an individual security, 
foreign exchange position, equity share or a portfolio of these instruments.
VaR at 99% confidence level implies 1% probability of the stated loss. The loss is generally stated 
in absolute amounts for a given transaction value (or value of an investment portfolio).
Treasury Management.indb 235 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
236 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
VaR is an estimate of potential loss, always for a given period at a given confidence level. Therefore, a 
VaR of `1,000,000 at 99% confidence level for one week for an investment portfolio of `100,000,000 
means that the market value of the portfolio is most likely to drop by maximum `1,000,000 with 1% 
probability over one week, or 99% of the time the portfolio will stand at or above its current value.
VaR is derived from a statistical formula based on volatility of the market. Volatility is the standard 
deviation from the mean of, say USD/INR exchange rates (or any other asset prices) observed over 
a period. Volatility assumes a normal distribution curve, and the number of standard deviations from 
the mean which denotes the probability of reaching a target level. The volatility multiplied by the 
number of standard deviations required for a given confidence level results in the VaR.
The following are the steps involved in the calculation of VaR:
(a) Take price series of the asset for which VaR is required.
(b) Calculate the natural logarithm of a day’s price divided by the previous day’s price and the 
mean.
(c) Calculate the difference of each natural logarithm from the mean and square the difference. 
Sum up the squares of the differences.
(d) Calculate variance.
(e) Calculate standard deviation.
Of course, VaR is a function of the standard deviation of relative price changes (i.e., the price change 
from one day to the next). Whether historical data or a forecast should be used for this purpose, is 
entirely left to the judgment of the user. A forecast is better if the immediate future is going to be 
very different from historical data.
VaR can be calculated for any period as desired. In every case, the standard deviation as calculated 
above is multiplied by the number of working days in the period for which the VaR is required. 
The number of working days in a year is 252 (forex market) and 300 (securities market), while in 
a month it is 22 (forex) and 26 (securities).
The same methodology can be followed to calculate the VaR of assets like foreign exchange and 
equity shares. To calculate the VaR of a portfolio, simply add the VaR of the individual instruments 
in the portfolio (on the assumption that their price movements are wholly uncorrelated). Otherwise, 
to calculate the VaR of a portfolio, its daily change in value must be used to calculate the volatility 
and VaR as above for a single security.
VaR is not a tool of risk management, but is a measure of risk. There could be times, as it happened 
in the global financial turmoil of 2008, when risks of unforeseen nature of unexpected proportions 
were noticed at the tail end of the curve.
18.8 RISKS IN TREASURY AND THEIR MANAGEMENT: 
SOME EXAMPLES
Scenario
A customer walks into the bank with a cheque for US$ 10,000, and requests the bank to pay Rupees 
by purchasing the instrument.
Treasury Management.indb 236 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS237 237
Nature of risk
Market risk, more specifically Exchange rate risk.
Treasury reacts
By effectively and immediately covering the transaction in the interbank/international market.
Scenario
A customer walks into the bank with a cheque for US$ 10,000, and requests the bank to deposit 
amount in FCNR (B) for 5 years.
Nature of risk
Market risk, more specifically interest rate risk.
Treasury reacts
By hedging the risk using Forward Rate Agreement or Interest Rate Swaps.
Scenario
An exporter books a forward contract with the bank for covering the receipts of exports of US$ 10 Mio.
Nature of risk
Market risk, more specifically exchange rate risk.
Treasury reacts
By covering the transaction in the interbank market.
Scenario
A customers walks into the bank with a cheque for US$ 10,000, and requests the bank to pay Rupees 
by purchasing the instrument. The system fails to take the transaction into position.
Nature of risk
Operational risk leading to market risk.
Treasury reacts
By covering the transaction and putting in place a correct system.
Treasury Management.indb 237 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
238 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Scenario
A customer walks into the bank with a cheque for US$ 10,000, and requests the bank to pay rupees 
by purchasing the instrument. The system fails to capture the gap position.
Nature of risk
Compliance risk as the statutory statement GPB submitted to RBI is wrong.
Treasury reacts
By correcting the gap position, and submitting the correct GBP while simultaneously correcting the 
system to capture gaps precisely.
Scenario
Branch reports delivery under forward contract to Dealing room.
Nature of risk
Operational risk leading to market risk.
Treasury reacts
By covering the transaction, and advising Back up and the branch. Suitable and correct guidelines 
will be issued to the branches.
Scenario
Bank opens an import LC for US$ 25 Mio, and lodges reimbursement instructions with reimbursing 
Bank. Reimbursement claim lodged without intimation to Dealing room.
Nature of risk
Liquidity risk as Dealing room has to arrange immediate funds.
Treasury reacts
By arranging funds and advising the branch.
Scenario
A foreign currency loan of US$ 20 Mio is sanctioned and disbursed.
Nature of risk
Credit risk.
Treasury Management.indb 238 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS239 239
Treasury reacts
By ensuring adherence to exposure limits.
Scenario
A corporate requests for derivative limits.
Nature of risk
Legal risk.
Treasury reacts
By ensuring that ISDA is executed and exchanged between the Corporate and the Bank.
Scenario
A Corporate books a forward. Exchange rate starts moving favourably to the corporate.
Nature of risk in case of Cancellation
Market risk that may become credit risk.
Treasury reacts
By marking the contract to market periodically, and demanding margin from the Corporate.
Scenario
Bank’s corporate client raises FCCBs and the corporate does not have any hedging policy.
Nature of risk
Risks arising out of unhedged forex exposures of Corporates
Treasury reacts
By ensuring that the Corporate puts in place a proper hedging policy and by following regulatory 
provisioning norms
Scenario
A Corporate which has a lot of economic exposure to a foreign country deals with the bank.
Nature of risk
Indirect country exposure.
Treasury Management.indb 239 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
240 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Treasury reacts
By capturing indirect country exposure.
18.9 RISK MANAGEMENT: RBI GUIDELINES/NORMS
The RBI has circulated detailed guidance notes on Market Risk Management, Asset Liability 
Management, and Credit Risk Management. According to these,
(a) Banks are required to send monthly reports covering liquidity mismatches and interest rate 
sensitivity.
(b) Banks are required to pay special attention to liquidity risk and management, and monitor the 
following:
(i) Call Borrowing/Lending
(ii) Purchased Funds vis-à-vis Liquid Assets
(iii) Core Deposits vis-à-vis Core Assets, i.e., CRR, SLR and Loans
(iv) Duration of Liabilities and Investments
(v) Maximum Cumulative Outflows across all time bands
(vi) Commitment Ratio – on and off B/S
(vii) Swapped Funds Ratio, i.e., extent of liabilities from forex sources.
18.9.1 Risk Management in Banks
(a) Banks have created an Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which manages gap, 
interest rate, liquidity, and currency risks of the treasury and non-treasury balance sheets.
(b) The banks submit monthly statements to the Board and RBI on liquidity mismatches and 
interest rate sensitivity.
(c) Stop loss levels are fixed for both SLR and non-SLR securities.
(d) Bank undertakes concurrent audits of securities and funds management transactions. These 
findings/reports are put up to the Audit Committee of the Board every quarter.
(e) The Investment Committee reviews the investment portfolio every half-year, with emphasis 
on rating migration and portfolio quality.
(f) The Treasury Department is subject to periodic inspection.
(g) The panel of brokers is reviewed annually.
(h) The software package used by treasury is system-audited at regular intervals to test its ability to 
cope with new products and instruments, scale of operations and outlying data and conditions.
(i) The functions of front-office, settlement back-office, mid-office, and accounts are completely 
segregated. This helps in avoiding operational risk and monitoring adherence to risk policies.
(j) Deals are backed by deal slips, and office memos containing approvals by competent authority.
(k) Defaults/arrears in interest/principal on bonds are monitored and reported to appropriate 
authorities.
(l) A bank will fully comply with all the RBI’s guidelines, regulations, and rules governing the 
investment portfolio.
Treasury Management.indb 240 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS241 241
(m) The RBI has now finalized norms for risk-based internal audit systems. Banks have been 
following the new system now.
18.10 ASSET-LIABILITY PRICING
The Bank’s liabilities are principally customer’s deposits of the demand (current, savings) and time 
categories. Time deposits could be of maturities from as little as 7 days to 10 years.
Deposit pricing is a function of:
(a) Money market rates;
(b) Interest rates/yields on risk-free securities, i.e. Government of India bonds;
(c) Maturity;
(d) Shape of the yield curve;
(e) Rate offered by competitors; and
(f) Rates on alternative fixed income instruments.
The ALCO of the bank decides on the deposit rates after taking into account all the above factors. 
The rates should give a spread to the bank on the asset side. Ideally speaking, deposit rates should 
be at or less than money market rates, as the latter represents the opportunity cost of funds for the 
bank. This necessitates close liaison between head office and treasury on the one hand, and treasury 
and branches on the other.
18.11 ADDING NEW PRODUCTS
Dealing in new products should be suitably authorised – informally at first if there is time pressure– 
and ratified immediately thereafter.
Key steps to be gone through in this process are:
(a) Approval for dealing with the new product – whether one-off or on a regular basis;
(b) Procedures for credit clearance in general, and limits specific clearances;
(c) Check if within existing regulations or guidelines, or specific then RBI approval is required;
(d) Ensure that the bank’s investment/treasury policies are not transgressed;
(e) Assess and identify specific risk factors associated with the new product;
(f) Evolve pricing approaches and models;
(g) Specify settlement procedures;
(h) Specify custodial responsibilities and follow-up of obligations of and to the bank;
(i) Accounting; and
(j) Development of Software.
18.11.1 Forex (Market) Risk
The forex market is probably the most consistently volatile of all financial markets. While it 
offers enormous scope for making profits, the other side of the coin is the risk of big losses from 
Treasury Management.indb 241 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
242 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
unexpected swings in exchange rates. This necessitates an effective forex risk management system 
involving:
(a) Fixing exposure limits by currency and maturity;
(b) Continuous market monitoring with reference to the bank’s open positions; and
(c) Closing loss positions, if stop loss limits/VaR are breached. For supporting the above, it is 
necessary to have adequate data-gathering systems in place to measure currency wise exposures 
and their maturities.
The following determine the forex risk exposure of the bank:
(a) Open Positions;
(b) Gap (Interest Rate/Swap) Risk;
(c) Counter party (Credit) Risk;
(d) Settlement Risk;
(e) Country Risk;
(f) Value-at-Risk;
(g) Operational Risk; and
(h) Legal Risk.
18.11.2 Open Positions and Gaps
(a) The main source of forex risk is the bank’s open positions in individual currencies.
An open position is a completely unhedged exposure in a currency. For example, if the bank 
has bought USD and sold INR, it is long USD and short INR – in effect it has a USD asset 
and INR liability. Thus, if the USD appreciates against the rupee, the bank gains, but if it 
depreciates, the bank loses. On the other hand, if the bank has sold USD and bought INR, it 
is exposed to the risk of USD appreciation.
A perfect hedge in this situation is if the bank has offset a long USD position with a USD 
sale. Now it runs no currency risk: there is no open position.
The same definition and analysis applies to cross-currencies – USD/JPY, EUR/USD, GBP/
USD, etc., as well.
Dealers do a host of transactions in different currencies in the interbank market or for 
customers. In view of the large volumes, transactions offset one another leaving net open 
(uncovered) positions in various currencies. Treasury Front Office maintains and manages 
all the forex positions of the bank.
When the dealing room closes ‘shop’ everyday, the open position for each currency is arrived 
at. It is essential to ensure that this should be within the approved limits; otherwise it should 
be justified and ratified in accordance with the delegation of powers.
 Dealers may or may not cover customer’s deals immediately, depending upon the market 
situation, movements, and dealers views on markets. If not covered, they add to the bank’s 
open position.
Treasury Management.indb 242 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS243 243
 Thus, the forex deal book of the bank is a portfolio of long and short forex positions in different 
currencies. These positions vary in amount and maturity. Spot deals mature in two working 
days (as of trade day) and forwards may mature any time up to 6 months or even a year.
 Long and short positions in a currency maturing on the same date (‘natural hedges’) will 
partly offset one another leaving a net open position.
 Formally, the net open position in a currency is:
 Net spot position (assets less liabilities in the currency including accrued income and 
expenditure).
 Net forward position (forward assets less forward liabilities, including swaps, options, futures, 
etc.)
+
Unsettled spot contracts (spot asset less spot liability positions)
+
Crystallized off-balance sheet liabilities (L/Cs, guarantees, etc.)
+
 Net open position
 The net position in each currency is summed, with the longs on one side and the shorts on the 
other. This is done in the base currency, USD. The higher of the aggregate longs and aggregate 
shorts is the open position of the bank. To this should be added the open position in gold (if 
any). The total open position must be within the board-approved limit for open forex positions.
In assessing risk in a forex portfolio, cross-currency positions (e.g., USD/JPY, euro/USD) 
must be isolated from USD/INR positions. The issue then is whether to convert all non-dollar 
assets/liabili-ties into USD assets/liabilities (and keep only USD/INR risk) or vice-versa (and 
keep cross-currency risk).
(b) Open Position Limits
• Daylight: Daylight open positions, as the name suggests, are exposures that are opened 
in the course of a trading day and will invariably be closed (squared) before the close 
of the day. Daylight exposures may last only for a few seconds, minutes or hours and 
arise when dealers try to take advantage of volatility during a trading session, either in 
the domestic (USD/INR) market or Far East, European or US markets, if trading in the 
crosses.
Thus, the bank may buy USD 1 mio. and sell equivalent INR at 10 a.m. for `64.75 and 
sell USD 1 mio., buying INR, for `64.80 at 11 a.m. for a profit of `0.05/USD. The bank 
has an open position of USD 1 mio. for one hour till the transaction is squared and risks 
USD depreciation during this time.
• Overnight: Overnight positions are positions carried over from one trading day to the 
next. If the bank elects not to close positions at the close of trading, it has an overnight 
Treasury Management.indb 243 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
244 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
exposure. O/N exposures are monitored on a real time basis. All O/N open positions 
carry 100% risk weight.
18.11.3 Gap (Interest Rate/Swap) Risk
Period mismatches in a currency pair result in interest (or swap) rate risk. If the bank has long USD/
INR three months and short USD/INR six months (same amount), there is no open position, but on 
maturity of the long (three-month) contract, there will be a gain or loss depending on:
• whether spot USD/INR is more or less than the originally contracted three-month forward; 
and
• whether the three-month swap rate for three months after three months (3 × 6) is more or 
less than the original swap differential when the three-month and six-month positions were 
created.
A fall in the forward discount on INR/USD (or, to put it differently, fall in the forward premium on 
USD/INR) could have been because INR interest rates are coming down or USD interest rates going 
up (or both). The point is that movements in interest rates affect forward premiums or discounts. A 
long forward position is adversely affected if interest rates in the long currency go up and vice-versa.
Or, as is won’t in the Indian situation, the forward premiums or discounts are driven more by 
expectations than interest differentials. Thus, if the market expects USD/INR to fall (rise), forward 
premiums on USD/INR will fall (rise).
The same principle applies to maturity mismatches in asset and liability flows in a currency. If assets 
mature ahead of liabilities, there is reinvestment risk, i.e., new assets may not yield as much as 
existing assets. Conversely, when liabilities mature earlier, refinancing risk arises because liabilities 
may increase in cost.
This underlines the need to monitor and forward a plan to manage the interest rate risks inherent in 
mismatched forward contracts and cash flow positions.
Forex risk management in the bank involves the following:
(a) Identification of Risk Factors by Product and Risk Measure
(b) Identification of Risk Management Responsibilities by Function
(a) Credit Risk Exposure Measurement: All forward and derivative contracts must be valued 
at replacement cost (i.e., marked to market). The RBI has suggested the original exposure 
method or current exposure method for the purpose. The latter contains a provision for 
changes in future credit exposure as well.
(b) Customer Credit Risk: In merchant transactions, credit risk is the responsibility of the 
branches from which the transactions originate. Branches will have to credit appraise customers 
before putting through deals on their behalf.
18.11.4 Settlement Risk
Settlement risk arising from time differences between trading zones, which may result in one of the 
parties to a transaction having to settle ahead of the other party, i.e., payment and receipt of currencies 
Treasury Management.indb 244 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS245 245
are not synchronized. To some extent (but not completely), this is mitigated by the exposure limits 
fixed for each inter-bank counterparty. But there is settlement risk to the full extent of the counterparty 
limit in case the risk materializes.
18.11.5 Country Risk
Country risk is the possibility that a country or bank in a country will not be able to honor obligations 
due to shortage of foreign exchange or political risk.
The RBI has asked banks to measure, monitor and control country exposures. It requires specific 
responsibility and accountability in the organization structures of the bank for country risk 
management.
The RBI’s principal norms with regard to country risk are summarized below:
• Monitoring and management are necessary only for countries where the net funded exposure 
is 1% of total assets.
• Country risk is part of counterparty risk. Thus, apart from credit risk with regard to individual 
borrowers, banks should factor in the country risk of the host country of the bank’s branch 
or the borrower.
• Over a period of time, the bank must develop internal ratings for country risk. They, however, 
should not exceed the international rating of individual countries.
• In the meanwhile, banks may use the ECGC’s seven category classification of country risk.
• Banks must fix country exposure limits in relation to their Tier I and II capital as well as by 
product, maturity buckets and branches. These must be reviewed at least once a year. Individual 
limits should not be more than the regulatory capital requirements of the concerned country.
• Country exposures should be monitored weekly in the beginning and then real time. High 
risk countries should be put on real time monitoring.
• Country portfolios should be subject to stress tests. The bank should have contingency plans 
and exit strategies to manage emergent situations, especially in high risk category countries.
• Exposures of the bank’s foreign branches to the host country must be included.
• Exposures to the bank’s foreign subsidiaries should be within the applicable country risk 
limits.
• Specific provisioning norms for the six categories of country risk have been stipulated. The 
provisioning needs to be only 25% of the norm for exposures maturing within 180 days. This 
is in addition to those for other assets.
• Provisioning out of Tier II capital should not exceed 1.25% of risk weighted assets.
• The following disclosures are mandatory:
• Country exposures by risk category.
• Aggregate provisioning for country risk.
• Country exposures form part of the DBS returns to the RBI.
18.11.6 Legal Risk
Standard agreements govern forex contracts in the domestic and international markets, the main being:
Treasury Management.indb 245 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
246 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(a) For Spot and Forward Foreign International Foreign Exchange
Exchange Nostro Agreement (IFENA)\
(b) Foreign Exchange Options International Currency Options
Agreement (ICOM)
(c) All others including Derivatives Internal Swap Dealers’ Association Master Agreement 
(ISDA Master Agreement)
 Disputes and arbitration in international courts/tribunals will be governed by covenants and 
obligations in the above agreements.
18.11.7 Operational Risk and Concurrent Audit
As required by the RBI, the banks carry out concurrent audit of all forex transactions. Auditors are 
required to give daily and monthly reports covering:
• Compliance with approved open position limit
• Compliance with overnight exposure limits
• Compliance with aggregate and individual gap limits
• Compliance with value at risk norms.
18.12 RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL
In view of the above, treasury is the epicenter of financial health quakes in a bank as it handles huge 
volumes of business and it assumes enormous amount of risks mainly market risk because of the volatile 
markets. Of late the markets have become very volatile, be they forex markets, securities markets, 
equities markets or gold market. The treasuries by their very nature have to cover the exposures that 
they assume on account of their customers and the modern treasuries have also become profit centres 
by doing proprietary trading in a big way. This explains the enormous exposures that the treasuries 
have to deal with which is a direct indication of the market risk that the treasury is exposed to.
The plethora of instruments that the treasuries are now handling/selling and the existence of various 
complex hedging tools available in the market all add up to a lot of risk for the treasury. Financial 
newspapers are often found riddled with headlines such as: “stock exchange may face settlement 
risk”; “high volume of open interest in ‘March futures’ in exchange causes concern”; “bond dealers 
worried about year-end valuations as the yields rise”; “tight liquidity in the market”; “impact of war on 
oil prices and possible decline in corporate profits”; “increasing NPA levels of banks”; “realignment 
of interest rates sends jitters”; etc. All these headlines have one common underlying factor: They all 
point towards one or the other form of risk. It could be liquidity risk, market risk, price risk, interest 
rate risk, settlement risk, operational risk, or default risk and they all call for their management. 
There are two ways of managing the risk. Anticipate, evaluate and take protective action to avoid 
downside or leave things to luck. Since the latter is a question of chance, banks have learnt to manage 
risk via hedging. As the market does not always behave as one anticipates, and as the instruments 
available for managing risk are varied and complex, managing risk has become more complicated.
Financial institutions are therefore required to understand risk, characteristics of instruments meant 
for managing risk, evaluate alternatives to protect the downside of risk, develop prudential exposure 
Treasury Management.indb 246 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL FINANCIAL MARKETS247 247
norms etc. to keep afloat. Risk management is possible only because there are people in the market 
who perceive risk differently and take contrary positions. It is important to remember that the level 
of information in the market is varied and so are the competency levels of market players. It is these 
factors that have given rise to existence of hedgers, speculators and arbitrageurs in the market.
Risk should be clearly distinct from inadequate policies. Take the case of call money market where 
one can witness days of very high call rates, often the result of sudden liquidity issues. If the dealer 
were to be guided by such high rates alone and invest all the surplus in call money market he/she 
will find it difficult to park funds if (often definite) the markets were to stabilize. It will appropriate 
that the bank follows exposure norms in different avenues and instruments rather than allowing 
the dealer to take such position which could impair the income levels and result in idle funds. Not 
having exposure limits on the argument that dealers are well trained to know when and where to 
invest will be a bad policy. To classify such events as risks is not appropriate. Another example is 
the stop loss policy. Often there appears a tendency to not adhere to stop loss limits on the plea that 
markets will bounce back (often they do) and therefore non adherence was a calibrated risk. Will 
the same argument hold good if the market did not bounce back. Hence stop loss limit should be 
stipulated and strictly adhered to. In fact a professional treasury will not tolerate non adherence to 
stop loss limits. Stop loss limits are derived from the basic risk appetite policies and hence should 
be complied with. Thus risk and bad policies and non-compliance are distinct.
Compliance is an important aspect of risk management. Compliance to the norms and practices and 
monitoring effective compliance should be part and parcel of the treasury department. Back office 
interventions on non-compliance is often post event and cannot contain damages, if any as such 
heads of treasury should focus on compliance.
Most of the treasury risks get classified under market risk. However, the credit, liquidity and 
operational risks in treasury are also equally important. The Basel III Regulations issued by RBI cover 
all these aspects and the salient features of the RBI Guidelines in this regard have been reproduced 
as Appendix A, which cover not only policy but also procedures. It is noteworthy that some of these 
well tested measures were started as early as 1992.
Let Us Sum Up
Various risks like operational risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, event risk, interest rate 
risk and their mitigation have been discussed. The concept of Value at risk (VaR) as an indicator of 
possible maximum loss which will be suffered in a specified period at a specified confidence level 
from a fall in the price of a security is explained. RBI guidelines on risk management have been 
given. Open position and gaps and open position limits, settlement risk and country risk and legal 
risk have been elaborated.
Keywords
Operational risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, event risk, interest rate risk, Value at risk, 
ALCO, Gap, settlement risk, IFEMA, ICOM and ISDA.
Treasury Management.indb 247 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
248 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Which is the measure of price sensitivity of a bond to changes in interest rates?
(a) Duration (b) CFAR
(c) VAR (d) Bond value yield
2. What does VAR at 99% confidence level imply?
(a) 99% probability of the stated loss (b) 1% probability of the stated loss
(c) 99/2% probability of the stated loss (d) cannot be calculated
3. VAR is derived from statistical formula based on _________________________
(a) Increase in interest rates (b) Price sensitivity of bonds
(c) Volatility of the market (d) Counterparty risk
4. What is the essential principle followed in foreign exchange transactions to completely 
avoid settlement risk?
(a) Entering into bilateral agreements
(b) Obtaining guarantees of Central Banks
(c) Evolving standard market practices
(d) Following Payment versus Payment method of settlement
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 248 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 249
FOREX VALUATION
STRUCTURE
19.0 Objective
19.1 FEDAI Guidelines and Valuation
19.2 Effects of Revaluation
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
19
Treasury Management.indb 249 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
250 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
19.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide inputs on forex valuation, FEDAI guidelines, revaluation of mirror accounts, effects of 
revaluation and also to provide basic information on accounting entries.
19.1 FEDAI GUIDELINES AND VALUATION
As per FEDAI Guidelines on Valuation, the prescribed procedure for revaluation of foreign currency 
position and booking of exchange profits/loss is as follows:
No. Particulars Revaluation rate to be applied
1
2
3
4
Balance in Mirror Account
Spot and Forward contracts (includes outstanding 
and overdue export bills purchased/discounted – 
excluding crystallized bills, merchant and interbank forward purchase and sale contracts outstanding and overdue option forward contracts 
to be grouped and netted out on month-wise 
maturity)
(a) Spot contracts (due within two Appropriate 
Forward working days from valuation date)
(b) Forward (yet to mature) contracts
Exchange profit and loss arising out of
(a) Revaluation of Mirror Account
(b) Revaluation of the items (2)
Spot rate as on the foreign currency valuation date
Spot Rates
To be accounted in Balances the respective Mirror
Accounts
To be accounted through exchange profit and 
loss adjustment account and reversed on the next 
working day after the valuation day
Notes:
1. Valuation Date: Last working day of each month/year.
2. Valuation Rate: The middle rates as prescribed by authorities should be applied in the case 
of valuation of both spot and forwards. In case of forwards, if the rate is not available for any 
particular month, the applicable rate may be arrived at through interpolation.
3. Periodicity of Valuation: Revaluation of spot and forward positions should be done at least 
once every half-year and monitored monthly on an estimate basis.
19.1.1 Revaluation of Mirror Account Balances
In respect of Mirror Account Balances, the foreign currency amount in each of the Nostro mirror 
(position transactions only) are revalued in rupee terms by applying the mirror revaluation rates as 
provided by FEDAI. The difference between the actual rupee outstanding and the rupee equivalent 
after revaluation is the profit/loss for that mirror account. The revaluation report is generated on 
monthly basis for MIS only and the profit/loss is not appropriated. The booking of profit/loss is done 
on half-yearly basis.
Treasury Management.indb 250 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
FOREX VALUATION FINANCIAL MARKETS251 251
19.1.2 Forward Evaluation
All transactions listed in the table above other than mirror account balances are to be valued at the 
rates provided by FEDAI for forward evaluation. All outstanding forwards are revalued in rupee 
terms by applying these rates. The difference between the actual rupee outstanding and the rupee 
equivalent after revaluation is the profit/loss for that particular transaction. The revaluation is carried 
out on monthly basis for MIS and the profit/loss is appropriated on half-yearly basis only and reversed 
on the next working day after valuation date.
19.2 EFFECTS OF REVALUATION
(a) Mirror (Pos) Balances/Forwards
INR Equivalent INR Equivalent Profit/Loss
Before Revaluation After Revaluation
Debit (+) Increase Profit Debit (–) Decrease Loss Credit (+) Increase Loss
Credit (–) Decrease Profit
(b) Accounting Entries for Mirror Balances
For Recording Profit
Debit: Nostro Mirror A/C Credit: Exchange A/C (Mirror) Loss
Debit: Exchange A/C (Mirror) Credit: Nostro Mirror A/C
(c) Accounting Entries for Forwards
For recording Profit
Debit: Profit and Loss A/C
Credit: Profit and Loss on Revaluation A/C
For Recording Loss
Debit: Profit and Loss on Revaluation A/C Credit: Profit and Loss A/C
The above entries in respect of forward evaluation are reversed on the next working day after the 
valuation date. The entry is reversed because the forward profit/loss is indicative in nature and all the 
forward transactions due for execution at a future point in time should be brought back to the original 
contracted rate. The actual profit in these items will be booked through the process of revaluation 
of nostro mirror accounts once these future obligations mature at a future date.
Treasury Management.indb 251 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
252 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Let Us Sum Up
The FEDAI guidelines on valuation with periodicity of valuation, with effects of valuation with 
accounting entries have been given.
Keywords
FEDAI, mirror, valuation date, Nostro accounts.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What are the FEDAI guidelines for valuation of balance in foreign currency mirror accounts?
(a) Spot rates as on date of valuation to be used.
(b) Forward rates for the period from the date of credit to Nostro to date of valuation to be used.
(c) RBI reference rates to be used.
(d) rates derived from bootstrapping to be used.
2. What is the stipulation of FEDAI for valuation of spot contracts?
(a) spot rates as on date of contract to be used.
(b) spot rates as on valuation date to be used.
(c) forward rates as decided bilaterally under information to FEDAI.
(d) no rate is applied for valuation of spot contracts.
3. What does FEDAI say in respect of forward contracts?
(a) apply spot rates.
(b) apply outright purchase rates.
(c) apply appropriate forward rates.
(d) WAR rates given by FEDAI.
4. What is the treatment to be given to exchange profit or loss arising out of revaluation of mirror 
account balances as per FEDAI?
(a) To be valued at rates decided by Management.
(b) Profit to be valued at TT buy and loss at TT sell on the date of valuation.
(c) To be valued at RBI reference rates for respective currencies.
(d) To be accounted in the respective mirror accounts.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 252 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 253
 ETHICS, MORALS AND
CODE OF CONDUCT
FOR THE DEALING
ROOM
STRUCTURE
20.0 Objective
20.1 Ethical Culture
20.2 Code of Conduct for Dealers
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
20
Treasury Management.indb 253 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
254 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
20.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide inputs on ethics and morals to be followed by dealers in the dealing room to create high 
standards of integrity and honesty for dealers in line with international best practices and also to 
furnish the details of the code of conduct issued by FEDAI.
20.1 ETHICAL CULTURE
Culture can be described but not defined easily. Nor can it be manufactured in an organization just 
by putting in a programme. Rather it is perceived by those who are employed or those who come 
into contact with the business. At its most basic, corporate culture expresses itself in behaviour and 
the way the business is run. Staff is sensitive to management styles; where the prevailing culture is 
one characterized by greed or arrogance, it is soon reflected in the way they behave. On the other 
hand, if it is one of trust, integrity and openness, staff generally will feel comfortable at work and 
be proud of the organization.
It is however more important that in the dealing room and Treasury, the people are expected to 
maintain highest standards of honesty and integrity because of the nature of business/work and also 
because of the volumes of business handled. The actions of the dealers will make the face of the 
bank and the impact and result of these actions is very profound on the organization. Hence there is 
great need to drive home the concept of integrity to the dealers with an intention to not only protect 
the image of the bank but also to avert any possible legal tussle. In this chapter, we briefly discuss 
the issues relating to integrity at work.
1. Use of confidential information
If accidentally, the dealers come to possess very confidential information of a competitor, peer banker 
or a client, the appropriate action should be clear while bearing in mind the bank’s reputation for 
the highest standards of integrity. The dealers must resist all temptation to utilize the information 
and derive undue advantage in the given situation which the asymmetry of information may give.
What is unethical is to use the information for competitive advantage knowing that it was privileged.
Adverse consequences of misuse of information may include perception throughout the industry 
that internal standards are low which can excuse inappropriate behaviour elsewhere besides causing 
immense reputational damage.
2. Gifts and pleasantries
It is quite possible that dealers may, in the normal course of business, receive small gifts and 
pleasantries from clients, brokers, counterparties, etc., as is the practice in the industry. It is desirable 
to have a well-documented policy on accepting small gifts so as to ensure that gifts do not transgress 
and become bribery. To avoid the emergence of such situation, the maximum value of the gift must 
be prescribed and the gift must be accepted in a transparent manner.
Treasury Management.indb 254 6/19/2018 6:24:08 PM
ETHICS, MORALS AND CODE OF CONDUCT FINANCIAL MARKETS255 255
What is unethical is accepting gifts of high value not in line with the customs and practices of the 
trade and not in a transparent way.
Adverse consequences may include reputational risk, charges of bribery and may also lead to litigation.
3. Dealers prudential trading limits
It is expected of all dealers to strictly adhere to the stipulated trading limits without having regard 
to their personal assessment of profitability of the trades. The limits reflect the risk appetite of the 
management and are also part of the risk management policy, and hence very sacred. Any violation 
of the limits will be viewed seriously by the management and the Regulator. Repeated violations 
may drive the management to attribute motives and may lead to disciplinary actions.
What is unethical is repeated violations of limits in place without appropriate authority
Adverse consequences may include reputational risk, concentration of risk leading to potential 
losses. The Bank’s systems and controls appear inadequate with potential consequential action by 
the Regulator.
4. New recruitment
The underlying principles of new recruitment should be trust and integrity of the candidates. The Bank 
should try to inculcate and nurture its own culture. Culture of an organisation is a key mitigating tool 
for the proper management of conflict of interests. Culture is a combination of both formal structures 
and procedures (such as HR policies on compensation, appraisals, discipline and training and IT support 
tools for this) and informal structures including the values and ethics promoted by the organisation 
and staff behaviours, for example, what is considered generally acceptable by the staff in the industry.
Adverse consequences may include reputational risk and the risk of employing someone who may 
cause damage and loss to the bank.
5. Compliance culture
Compliance culture in the bank must be encouraged and appreciated. It is necessary for all the dealers 
and treasurers to comply with the regulatory and other prudential guidelines and procedures. The 
Compliance officer must ensure compliance and should command respect among operational and 
front office staff.
Adverse consequences of non-compliance may include regulatory breach and if unchecked, may 
lead to further breaches.
6. Conflict of interest
Conflict of interest should be avoided at all times. The allotment of duties and departments should 
be done in such an effective manner that the conflict of interest is avoided.
Treasury Management.indb 255 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
256 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
What is unethical is to utilize the conflict of interest, should it arise, to one’s own personal advantage 
and to the detriment of the Banks’ interest.
Adverse consequences may include reputational risk. Failure to resolve conflict of interest or inability 
to properly handle it may sometimes result in regulatory action.
7. Misselling
From the Dealing room, misselling of treasury products and derivatives should never happen. The 
dealers must resist the temptation of selling the products to wrong or uninformed buyers with the 
intention of increasing volumes/profitability. The misselling mostly happens with reference to 
exotic and complex derivative products and Treasury products. Reserve Bank of India has expressed 
concerns on the issue of misselling and put in place the ‘Suitability and Appropriateness’ policy and 
advised the Treasuries to follow the same scrupulously.
What is unethical is selling structured (leveraged) complex products to buyers without properly 
and clearly explaining the risks, especially, the downside risks, associated with the product. It is 
also unethical to sell the products to people/clients for whom the products are not suitable and 
appropriate.
Adverse consequences may include reputational damage and financial loss, aggrieved counterparties/
clients seeking redressal from the Bank and regulatory action.
8. Poaching of Staff
In very specialised areas like Treasury, the attrition rate is becoming very high. But it is not proper 
to poach staff from a competitor or another market player. Poaching leads to chaos in the market.
What is unethical is poaching from an organization with whom the bank has valuable relationship.
Adverse consequences may include strained relationships and sometimes legal complications.
9. Reputational Issues
There may arise situations in which Banks/dealers may be required to participate in transactions that 
ultimately result in some tax advantage to the client or allow the clients to take advantage of some 
arbitrage. These types of transaction should be best avoided. Alternatively, extensive due diligence 
needs to be undertaken on all aspects before proceeding. Bank may be satisfied on the question of 
the legality of the proposal, but the question remains whether the inherent risks associated with tax 
evasion/tax arbitrage might still make the proposal unacceptable.
What is unethical is participating in transactions which bend the rules to an unacceptable, albeit, not 
illegal extent, which may well cause considerable internal discussion before participation.
Adverse consequences may include adverse publicity, loss of business resulting from regime 
change.
Treasury Management.indb 256 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
ETHICS, MORALS AND CODE OF CONDUCT FINANCIAL MARKETS257 257
10. Corporate Hospitality
Corporate hospitality/entertainment can be a contentious area, particularly if banks do not have 
clear guidelines covering both the offering and acceptance of entertainment and gifts. Generally 
any hospitality deemed appropriate should be proportionate to the nature of the relationship and the 
seniority of those involved. Hospitality should not be offered without the donor being present and 
would not normally cover more than the event itself. A register of gifts and hospitality should be 
kept covering all activity above a specified figure.
What is unethical is accepting or offering hospitality beyond the laid down policy.
Adverse consequences: Lack of clear policy and guidance can result in inappropriate types and value 
of entertainment being offered and received, resulting in lax culture developing. Inadequate control 
and understanding of the purpose and place of corporate hospitality makes the possibility of what 
is in effect bribery becoming acceptable.
11. Whistle blowing
The Bank should have a documented reporting or whistleblowing procedure and it must be well 
publicized. The management should be approachable. It should have an active dialogue with staff, 
providing opportunities for situations to be brought to its attention. The procedures should also offer 
alternative reporting routes to areas such as compliance or HR. The bank should have a track record 
of treating these issues effectively and in confidence, if reported. If the bank is perceived to be lacking 
in appropriate policies or the staff has no confidence in their effective application, there is always the 
nuclear option of making a report direct to the regulator. Clearly, it is in the Banks’ interest to ensure 
that the reports are made internally in the first instance but, if members of staff lack confidence to 
follow internal procedures, it suggests that the organization’s culture and ethos may be deficient.
What is unethical is the action of the staff in ignoring the published complaints procedure. 
Discouraging staff from reporting rule breaches is unethical. Ignoring rule breaches, having been 
made aware of them, is unethical.
Adverse consequences: Internally, the consequences of taking no action are to undermine the 
organization’s procedures and regard for them in three areas – operations, compliance and human 
resources. Operationally, failure to follow procedures breeds a culture of carelessness, which can lead 
to financial loss or regulatory sanction for compliance failure. An absence of reporting procedures for 
staff, or contempt for them, suggests a culture of general indifference, which can lead to operational 
loss and compliance failure.
19.2 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEALERS
The dealing room is a sensitive department with dealers having access to a lot of price-sensitive 
information and trading strategies. The dealers are required to handle brokers, customers and other 
counter-parties very professionally. There should be no conflict of interest for dealers and they should 
demonstrate high degrees of integrity and honesty. The dealers are generally advised to sign and 
Treasury Management.indb 257 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
258 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
execute a code of conduct designed and prepared by a Self Regulatory Agency (SRA) like FEDAI, 
besides undertaking to abide by various guidelines and directions issued by the bank.
Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI), a Self Regulatory Agency (SRA), has 
come out with a code of conduct for dealers and brokers which all the banks follow. The copy of 
the code of conduct is furnished below.
19.2.1 FEDAI Code of Conduct-Dealers and Brokers
1. Confidentiality
	 1.1	 The preservation of confidentiality is essential for proper conduct of business in foreign
exchange transactions. The dealers and brokersshould realise that any breach of confidentiality
would damage the reputation of the participants in the markets. Merely for the sake of securing 
short term gains, a bank dealer may sometimes be tempted to press a broker for information 
which would be improper for him to pass on; an active bank dealer may even hint that failure 
to co-operate with him might lead to reduction in business routed through the concerned 
broker. Any such behaviour or other similar acts on the part of a dealer to induce a broker or 
vice-versa to breach confidentiality should be strongly condemned. A broker also should not
induce a ‘Bank Dealer’ and force him to close a deal with him to enable him to have short 
term gains.The following rules should be followed for safeguarding confidentiality.
1.2 A broker shall not reveal the name of the counter-party bank until the deal is closed. No deal 
shall be deemed to be concluded finally under normal circumstances unless and until the name
of the counter party bank is furnished by the broker. Brokers/dealers should ensure that the 
names of banks which are not acceptable are not divulged as a matter of routine, to others.
1.3 Where a counter party bank’s name proves to be unacceptable to the bank making the offer, 
the broker should not disclose the name of the latter nor the reason for non-acceptance of the 
other bank. The bank whose acceptance is refused may sometimes feel that the broker in such 
a situation had made a quotation which he could not substantiate. In such cases, the broker 
may ask the FEDAI to mediate through the guidance committee and to obtain confirmation
from the reluctant counter-party bank assuring that the broker did have business at the quoted 
price thus establishing the bonafides of the broker and his quotation.
	 1.4	 Bank dealers should not normally be allowed to visit broker’s offices. However, when
necessary, they may do so at the express invitation of the partners of the firm concerned and
with the prior knowledge and approval of the officer-in-charge of bank’s foreign exchange
business. The partner of the broker’s firm should carefully supervise such visitsso asto protect
the confidentiality of business being transacted in the broker’s office during such visits.
	 1.5	 No broker firm should solicit business from bank’s dealers through unorthodox means.
	 1.6	 Bank dealers should, on no account, deal from a broker’s office or from a place outside their
dealing rooms.
1.7 Dealing for personal account is prohibited.
	 1.8	 Deals, concluded after the back office has closed recording for the day, (late deals) are to be
marked as such and included in that day’s position. A late deal slip must be passed immediately 
to an official unconnected with the dealer.
Chapter 16-26.indd 258 6/21/2018 3:11:40 PM
ETHICS, MORALS AND CODE OF CONDUCT FINANCIAL MARKETS259 259
1.9 The dealer has to operate according to the guidelines laid down by the management.
1.10 Dealers should not associate with the accounting work.
1.11 Dealers/brokers should acknowledge in writing that they have read, understood and would 
observe the code of conduct. It must be made clear to them that disciplinary actions could be 
taken against those who breach the code. All dealers should furnish an undertaking to conform 
to the code of conduct.
1.12 Dealers and brokers should not relay any information which they know to be false and should 
take great care when discussing unsubstantiated information.
1.13 In the normal course of business, dealers and brokers are often entrusted with proprietary 
and materially price sensitive information. To disclose such confidential information without 
consent before it becomes public is unethical and breach of confidentiality.
1.14 Dealers and brokers should not, with intent or through negligence, profit or seek to profit from 
confidential information, nor assist anyone with such information to make profit.
1.15 Dealers should refrain from trading against confidential information and they should never 
reveal such information outside their organisations, even after they have changed their 
employment.
2. Dealing Procedures
2.1 The dealing operations between banks and brokers are done mostly over telephone and therefore 
call for very high standards of credibility, code of conduct and expertise. It is equally necessary 
for identification of the voices of the brokers/dealers. A high degree of ethical standard is, 
therefore, required among all participants in the market.
2.2 Once a bank dealer has quoted a price and stated his requirements to a broker, he is bound to 
deal on those terms with acceptable names and within a ‘reasonable’ period. The bank dealer 
must at the time of placing the order indicate to the broker time limit for that offer. Similarly, 
a broker on his part should make it clear to the bank whether his price offer is ‘firm’ and if 
so, indicate the amount involved and the time up to which the offer is valid. In case a broker 
cannot strike a deal within the time stipulated, he should at reasonable intervals inquire 
whether the offer still holds good. It is the duty of the bank dealer to inform the broker that 
the offer stands/withdrawn. A bank dealer who wishes to withdraw/change the offer already 
made, must clearly advise the broker that the offer stands withdrawn/altered; mere dropping 
down the telephone receiver does not make the offer withdrawn.
2.3 A bank dealer/broker may indicate rates for information only.
2.4 Banks shall honour the firm prices quoted by them provided the brokers respond within the 
stipulated time, giving the name of the counter-party bank. The language used among the 
banks and brokers should be clear and unambiguous.
2.5 In case the amounts involved do not reflect the normal market practice, the broker should get 
confirmation of the amounts before quoting the rates to other banks. While finalising a deal, 
the broker must give the name of the counter party bank and confirm that the deal is closed. No 
transaction can be treated as final till the broker confirms the deal and declares an acceptable 
name of the counter party to the offering bank. Any change in name of the counterparty bank, 
exchange rate, amount and delivery period should be made with the acceptance of both the 
banks.
Treasury Management.indb 259 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
260 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
2.6 Advantage should never be taken even unintentionally of an obviously incorrect quotation 
offered or accepted.
2.7 To minimize errors and misunderstanding, brokers should pass on their ‘Broker Notes’ as 
soon as practicable after the deals have been concluded and banks should normally receive 
confirmation from the broker through the fastest means on the same day.
2.8 The handling of confirmations of the deals deserve special attention and banks shall exchange 
their written confirmations promptly, as undetected discrepancies in payment instructions or 
other details may prove to be irksome and costly. Adherence to the following procedure is 
essential:
(i) Banks should receive confirmation from the broker through fastest means on the same 
day. Brokers’ notes should be delivered to the concerned department of the bank.
(ii) Brokers’ Notes should indicate specifically and clearly whether the contract is an ‘outright’ 
or a ‘swap’ deal.
(iii) The Brokers’ Notes shall indicate the settlement instructions as required by contracting 
banks.
(iv) It shall be the duty of the broker to assist the bank to obtain confirmation of deals from 
the other banks, where necessary.
(v) Discrepancies/errors found in the Brokers’ Notes should be notified to the brokers on 
the same day and in any case not later than the close of business on the second working 
day.
2.9 Banks shall not treat contracts as closed unless and until the brokers also confirm their closures.
2.10 Management should have a clear written policy regarding the use of mobiles and wireless 
communication devices by trading, sales and settlement staff. The use of wireless 
communication devices within the front or back offices for official business, except in an 
emergency or disaster recovery situation or specifically approved by senior management is 
not considered good practice.
3. Differences Payable by Brokers
3.1 There may be occasions, particularly, in the fast moving foreign exchange markets, when a 
broker may not be able to substantiate his firm quotation where he has an obligation to do so. 
The broker should close the deal at the next available price and settle the difference between 
the ‘firm’ rate and ‘settled’ rate by issue of a cheque for the amount to that bank which has 
suffered the loss under cover of a letter stating the circumstances which necessitated such a 
settlement. He shall not attempt or agree to compensate the bank by promising favourable rates 
in future deals. FEDAI ‘Guidance Committee’ should be kept informed of such instances by 
the broker as well as banker for necessary record/action. In terms of para. 3.3 below, brokers 
shall operate on the specific instructions of dealers’, and thus substitution of one bank by 
another in inter-bank contracts by brokers is prohibited.
3.2 As market participants, the brokers must be impartial in rendering services to banks.
3.3 Under the Reserve Bank of India Guidelines, brokers are prohibited from dealing on their 
own account. No broker shall maintain an ‘exchange’ position. Banks must promptly bring 
to the notice of the ‘Guidance Committee’ instances of brokers holding such positions.
Treasury Management.indb 260 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
ETHICS, MORALS AND CODE OF CONDUCT FINANCIAL MARKETS261 261
3.4 While dealers may arrange to pick up deliveries under contracts directly to the extent possible, 
it shall be the duty of the broker to assist the dealers in the matter, when requested to do so but 
he shall not be responsible for any loss which the bank may incur due to delay in the delivery 
of the amounts, etc.
4. Frivolous Quotations
4.1 Brokers and bank dealers shall not make frivolous quotations designed to mislead market 
participants.
4.2 If any broker or a bank dealer is found to be resorting to frivolous quotations, it shall be the 
duty of other brokers/bank dealers to bring such instances to the notice of FEDAI in writing 
for appropriate action by the ‘Guidance Committee’.
5. Quotation of Fictitious Rates
5.1 Under no circumstances shall a broker or a bank dealer conclude ‘swap’ transactions at rates/
differences at off-market rates.
5.2 In the case of ‘forward to forward’ contracts, the rates quoted for the ‘swap’ transactions 
should not be out of alignment with the going inter-bank ‘forward’ rates. Swap differentials 
in such cases should not grossly be away from ongoing market differences.
5.3 If any dealer/broker is found to be indulging in such malpractices, the matter should be 
promptly brought to the attention of FEDAI Guidance Committee.
6. After-Hours Dealing
6.1 Banks should prescribe in writing dealing hours of the bank dealers (staggered hours, if 
necessary) keeping in mind the instructions of Internal Control Guidelines of Reserve bank 
of India with regards to Hours of Business. Where one of the legs is Indian Rupee, the hours 
of business are to be as per FEDAI Rule 1.
6.2 There is a possibility that the inter-bank market deals may be concluded through brokers 
outside normal hours. To ensure the authenticity of such deals, the dealers as well as the 
brokers should arrange that such deals are confirmed immediately.
6.3 Unless authorised by the management of the banks, no dealer should handle dealing operations 
after normal hours and, in such cases, proper record of deals such as electronic/telex messages, 
time chart of rates, etc., should be maintained.
7. Brokerage Payments by Banks
8.1 Brokerage bills shall not be passed for payment by dealers.
8.2 Dealers should not nominate brokers.
8.3 Bank dealers shall not distribute brokerage among brokers who are not involved in the 
execution of a deal.
8.4 Under no circumstances shall a broker waive or offer to waive brokerage payable by a bank 
on account of business concluded by him with that bank.
Treasury Management.indb 261 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
262 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8. Market Irregularities
8.1 Where there is a suspicion of improper conduct on the part of a participant in the market, 
banks/brokers who may come to know of it should bring such matter to the attention of FEDAI 
promptly for purpose of investigation and necessary action by the ‘Guidance Committee’. 
Such report will be considered as strictly private & confidential.
8.2 Spreading of rumours in the market about market participants, even giving out factual 
information as to deals made by different authorised dealers would be deemed contrary to 
the ‘Code of Conduct’ and the delinquent dealers/brokers are liable for disciplinary action as 
may be decided upon by the FEDAI/Bank Managements.
9. Enquiry into the Conduct of Brokers
In case any instances of malpractices committed by a bank dealer or a broker are brought to 
the notice of the FEDAI, the FEDAI may call for full details of such transactions which will 
be investigated. The report will be placed before Guidance Committee, which will recommend 
mode of action to FEDAI. The Managing Committee of FEDAI will initiate appropriate 
disciplinary action against delinquent bank dealer or a broker in case of infringement of the 
‘Code of Conduct’.
10. Penalties
10.1 Any violation of the above ‘Code’ by a broker will make him liable for deterrent penalty up to 
the maximum of Rs. 50,000/- exclusive of payment of any loss/damage caused to a bank by 
such violation. Collection and payment of such penalties by the brokers to FEDAI should be 
ensured by FEBAI. FEDAI may also suspend the concerned broker on the recommendation 
of the Guidance Committee.
10.2 As far as bank dealers are concerned, any punishment or disciplinary action for violation of 
the ‘Code’ shall be taken by the concerned bank’s management on the basis of the decision 
of the ‘FEDAI’ and other relevant evidence made available.
10.3 Broking firm/company which is not subscribing to this Code shall not be permitted to participate 
in the market operations.
In compliance with FEDAI guidelines Banks generally obtain undertaking letters from dealers to 
ensure strict adherence to high ethical standards and integrity.
Let Us Sum Up
Ethics to be followed by dealers in respect of confidential information, new recruitment, compliance 
culture, conflict of interest, misselling, poaching and whistle blowing have been discussed. The code 
of conduct formulated by FEDAI and being followed by the banks have been discussed in detail and 
the draft copies of undertakings generally banks take from the dealers have been provided.
Treasury Management.indb 262 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
ETHICS, MORALS AND CODE OF CONDUCT FINANCIAL MARKETS263 263
Keywords
Prudential trading limits, conflict of interest, misselling, poaching, whistle blowing, frivolous 
quotations, after hours dealing, brokerage and penalties.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is unethical when the dealers handle confidential information?
(a) Using the information for competitive advantage knowing that it was privileged.
(b) Destroying the information.
(c) Keeping and storing the information with themselves.
(d) Not revealing the information to anybody.
2. What do the prudential trading limits reflect?
(a) They reflect merely the directives of management.
(b) They reflect risk appetite of the management.
(c) They reflect the understanding with the counter parties.
(d) They reflect the dealers’ competence levels.
3. The functions of Front and Mid office should be segregated and must be distinctly different, 
why?
(a) To prevent Front office and Mid office from colluding and defrauding the bank.
(b) To enable Front office to increase volumes without intervention by mid office.
(c) To avoid conflict of interest.
(d) To provide level playing field for both Front office and Mid office.
4. What is misselling in dealing room?
(a) Selling products of other banks.
(b) Selling bank products without collecting stipulated charges.
(c) Selling products that are still in the making.
(d) Selling complex products without explaining the downside risks and selling products 
that are not suitable and appropriate to the clients.
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 263 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
 COMPONENTS OF
MULTI-CURRENCY
BALANCE SHEETS
STRUCTURE
21.0 Objective
21.1 Components of Multi-Currency Balance Sheet
21.2 Guidelines for Compliance by Banks – Accounting Standard (AS) 11(revised 2003), ‘The 
Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
21
Treasury Management.indb 264 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
COMPONENTS OF MULTI-CURRENCY BALANCE SHEETS FINANCIAL MARKETS265 265
21.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide inputs on various components of present day balance sheet of banks that conduct various 
cross-border transactions. Such balance sheets will be generally denominated in multi-currency. 
Then arises the need for valuation of assets and liabilities. Hence guidelines for compliance with 
Accounting Standards -11 have been given.
The components and disclosure norms of balance sheets of banks and corporates have undergone 
tremendous changes in recent times. The corporates have added plethora of activities to their list 
and some of the corporate have established treasuries to manage their funds. The corporates have 
started acquisitions, mergers and takeovers. They are allowed to take ECBs, foreign currency loans 
and enter into areas hitherto unheard of. Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCB) have become 
a popular route to raise resources. All this resulted in dramatic change of the composition of their 
balance sheets.
The banks have also grown in size and complexity. Banks have started opening overseas branches 
to help their corporate clients in their expansionary ventures. Banks have started borrowing through 
MTNs (Medium Term Notes) in foreign currency. They have started accepting liabilities in foreign 
currency like FCNR, EEFC, RFC RFC (D), Special Foreign Currency deposits, etc. They have also 
started granting pre-shipment loans in foreign currency, post-shipment loans in foreign currency. 
They also lend to their foreign branches and make placements in foreign currency with their foreign 
correspondents. Banks are also participating in CLNs (Credit Linked Notes) and other complex 
derivative products. Further, banks are doing cross-border lending. With the spurt in international 
activities, the complexity of balance sheets has also increased. The liabilities as well as assets have 
started appearing in various foreign currencies lending the balance sheets colour and complexity.
In this background, banks are required to maintain the resources and assets in the respective currencies 
to effectively manage the exchange rate risk leading them to maintain multi-currency balance sheets.
21.1 COMPONENTS OF MULTI-CURRENCY BALANCE SHEET
Apart from the usual items, the following items may appear in a multi-currency balance sheet.
Resources
• Foreign Currency Non-Resident Deposits-FCNR (B)
• Exchange Earners Foreign Currency account
• Resident Foreign Currency account
• Resident Foreign Currency account (domestic)
• Special foreign currency account
• Borrowings from overseas branches/foreign correspondents
Assets
• Foreign currency loans
• Pre-shipment credit in foreign currency
• Post-shipment credit in foreign currency
Treasury Management.indb 265 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
266 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Placements with overseas branches/foreign correspondents
• Credit linked notes
Even though various assets and liabilities will appear in various currencies, the final balance has to 
be prepared in the Reporting currency, i.e. Indian Rupees for Indian Banks and respective reporting 
currencies for foreign branches of Indian banks. This translation of multi-currency balance sheet 
in to the reporting currency entails lot of exchange risk. Precisely in this context, AS 11 guidelines 
have come in to force. AS 11 guidelines:
21.2 GUIDELINES FOR COMPLIANCE BY BANKS – ACCOUNTING 
STANDARD (AS) 11(REVISED 2003), ‘THE EFFECTS OF 
CHANGES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES’
21.2.1 Classification of Integral and Non-integral Foreign Operations
Paragraph 17 of the Standard states that the method used to translate the financial statements of a 
foreign operation depends on the way in which it is financed and operates in relation to the reporting 
enterprise. For this purpose, foreign operations are classified as either ‘integral foreign operations’ 
or ‘non-integral foreign operations’. While complying with the Standard, a doubt may arise on the 
classification of representative offices set up in foreign countries, foreign branches and off-shore 
banking units set up in India as ‘integral foreign operation’ or ‘non-integral foreign operation’.
21.2.2 Action to be Taken by Banks
Paragraphs 18 and 19 of the Standard explain ‘integral foreign operation’ and ‘non-integral foreign 
operation’. Paragraph 20 of the Standard provides indications as to when a foreign operation is a 
non-integral foreign operation rather than an integral foreign operation. Taking into consideration 
the operation of the foreign branches of Indian banks and the indicators listed in paragraph 20, 
foreign branches of Indian banks would be classified as ‘non-integral foreign operations’. Similarly, 
Offshore Banking Units (OBUs) set up in India by banks would also be classified as ‘non-integral 
foreign operations’. Taking into consideration the operation of the representative offices of banks 
set up abroad and the explanation in paragraph 18 of the Standard, Representative Offices would 
be classified as ‘integral foreign operations’. These classifications are for the limited purpose of 
compliance with the Standard.
21.2.3 Exchange Rate for Recording Foreign Currency Transactions 
and Translation of Financial Statements of Non-integral 
Foreign Operation
As per paragraphs 9 and 21 of the Standard, a foreign currency transaction should be recorded by 
Indian branches and integral foreign operations, on initial recognition in the reporting currency, by 
applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the reporting currency and the 
Treasury Management.indb 266 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
COMPONENTS OF MULTI-CURRENCY BALANCE SHEETS FINANCIAL MARKETS267 267
foreign currency at the date of the transaction. Further, paragraph 24 (b) of the Standard states that 
income and expense items of non-integral foreign operations should be translated at exchange rates 
at the dates of the transactions. While adopting the Standard, Indian branches and integral foreign 
operations of banks may face difficulty in applying the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the 
transaction in respect of the items which are not being recorded in Indian Rupees or are currently 
being recorded using a notional exchange rate, due to their extensive branch network and volume 
of transactions. Similarly, banks may face difficulty in translating income and expense items of a 
non-integral foreign operation by applying the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
21.2.4 Action to be Taken by Banks
Banks, which are in a position to apply the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction for 
recording the foreign currency transactions at their Indian branches and integral foreign operations 
and for translating the income and expense items of non-integral foreign operations as required under 
AS 11 are encouraged to comply with the requirements. Banks, which have an extensive branch 
network, which have a high volume of foreign currency transactions and are not fully equipped on 
the technology front may be guided by the following:
(i) Paragraph 10 of the Standard allows, for practical reasons, the use of a rate that approximates 
the actual rate at the date of the transaction. For example, an average rate for a week or a month 
might be used for all transactions in each foreign currency occurring during that period. Similarly, 
in respect of the non-integral foreign operations, paragraph 25 of the Standard provides that for 
practical reasons, a rate that approximates the actual exchange rates, for example an average 
rate for the period, is often used to translate income and expense items of a foreign operation. 
The Standard also states that if exchange rates fluctuate significantly, the use of average rate 
for a period is unreliable. Therefore, as per the Standard, except in cases where exchange rates 
fluctuate significantly, a rate that approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction may 
be used. Since the enterprises are required to record the transactions at the date of the occurrence 
thereof, the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week can be used for recording the 
transactions occurring in the relevant week, if the same approximates the actual rate at the date 
of the transaction. In view of the practical difficulties which banks may have in applying the 
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions and since the Standard allows the use of a rate that 
approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction, banks may use average rates as detailed 
below. In this regard FEDAI has agreed to publish a weekly average closing rate at the end of 
each week and a quarterly average closing rate at the end of each quarter for various currencies.
• In respect of Indian branches and integral foreign operations, those foreign currency 
transactions, which are currently not being recorded in Indian Rupees at the date of the 
transaction or are being recorded using a notional exchange rate may now be recorded at 
the date of the transaction by using the weekly average closing rate of the preceding 
week, published by FEDAI, if the same approximates the actual rate at the date of the 
transaction.
• Generally, Indian banks prepare the consolidated accounts for their domestic and foreign 
branches at quarterly or longer intervals. Hence, banks may use the quarterly average 
closing rate, published by FEDAI at the end of each quarter, for translating the income 
and expense items of non-integral foreign operations during the quarter.
Treasury Management.indb 267 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
268 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• If the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week does not approximate the actual 
rate at the date of the transaction, the closing rate at the date of the transaction should be 
used. For this purpose, the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week would not 
be considered approximating the actual rate at the date of the transaction if the difference 
between (a) the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week, and (b) the exchange 
rate prevailing at the date of the transaction, is more than five percent of (b). In respect 
of non-integral foreign operations, if there are significant exchange fluctuations during 
the quarter, the income and expense items of non-integral foreign operations should be 
translated by using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction instead of the quarterly 
average closing rate. For this purpose, the exchange rate fluctuation would be considered 
as significant, if the difference between the two rates is more than ten per cent of the 
exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. The limit of five/ten percent variation 
has been considered as appropriate since such variation is not expected to have a material 
impact on the amount of the relevant items such as foreign currency loans and advances 
and deposits, and operating results.
(ii) Banks are, however, encouraged to equip themselves to record the foreign currency transactions 
of Indian branches as well as integral foreign operations and translate the income as well as 
expense items of non-integral foreign operations at the exchange rate prevailing on the date 
of the transaction.
21.2.5 Closing Rate
Paragraph 7 of the Standard defines ‘Closing rate’ as the exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
21.2.6 Action to be Taken by Banks
In order to ensure uniformity among banks, closing rate to be applied for the purposes of AS 11(revised 
2003) for the relevant accounting period would be the last closing spot rate of exchange announced 
by FEDAI for that accounting period.
With the adoption of AS 11 guidelines, the P/L accounts of banks have become very volatile as they 
adopt the exchange rate for the currencies as on the date of balance sheet and transfer the net effect 
to P&L account. In view of this the banks are required to make some additional disclosures in their 
balance sheets to enable the shareholders, clients, public, analysts, and correspondents to understand 
and interpret the balance sheets correctly.
Source: RBI circular
In the case of overseas branches, there may be an item on their liability side titled ‘Retained earnings’ 
unless the profits are repatriated back to Indian Head Office every year. While translating the balance 
sheet in to Indian Rupees, there may not be any effect of this item as it is treated as another liability, 
this item will have great impact on the calculation of overnight open position limit of the branch as 
it is reckoned for computation of overnight open position limit of the bank globally.
Treasury Management.indb 268 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
COMPONENTS OF MULTI-CURRENCY BALANCE SHEETS FINANCIAL MARKETS269 269
Another item that could find place in the multi-currency balance sheets may be ‘Credit Linked Notes’ 
which are high risk instruments and hence change the risk nature of the balance sheet.
With the adoption of multi-currency balance sheets, the risk profile of banks has completely changed. 
The foreign currency liabilities and assets contribute great amount of interest risk and exchange risk. 
Therefore banks are required to hedge these risks effectively using the available tools. Banks started 
hedging interest rate risk using extensively FRAs (Forward Rate Agreements) and IRS (Interest 
Rate Swaps). The foreign currency borrowings either at fixed rate or floating rate, depending on 
the developing interest rate scenario, are covered by currency swaps either by POS (Principal Only 
Swap) or COS (Coupon Only Swap). The Exchange traded currency futures provide another platform 
for banks to hedge their exchange risks.
Thus the emergence of multi-currency balance sheets heralds an era of opportunities, complexities 
and challenges.
Let Us Sum Up
The components of multi-currency balance sheet like FCNR (B), EEFC, RFC, RFC (domestic), SFC 
overseas borrowings, PCFC, PSFC, FCL, overseas placements and CLNs have been discussed. The 
RBI guidelines on AS 11 accounting has also been explained.
Keywords
Multi-currency Balance Sheet, FCNR (B), AS11, Non-integrated foreign operation
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. According to paragraph 20 of the standards, foreign finance of Indian Bank would be classified as
(a) Non-integral foreign operations
(b) Integral foreign operations
(c) Composite operations
(d) stand alone operations
2. In respect of Indian Banks, Foreign currency transactions may be recorded using WAR (Weekly 
Average Rate) given by whom?
(a) IBA
(b) FEDAI
(c) RBI
(d) CCIL
3. Which one of the following may appear as an asset in the multi-currency balance sheet of a 
bank?
(a) FCNR(B)
(b) RFC(D)
Treasury Management.indb 269 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
270 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(c) Foreign currency loans
(d) Borrowing from overseas branches
4. How are OBUs set up by banks in India classified?
(a) Integral foreign operations
(b) integral domestic operations
(c) non-integral domestic operations
(d) non-integral foreign operations
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 270 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 271
MODULE – D
RISK MANAGEMENT
Units
22. Accounting/Valuation
23. Exposure Norms
24. Internal and External Audit
25. Role of Information Technology in Treasury Management
26. Regulations, Supervision and Compliance of Treasury Operations
Treasury Management.indb 271 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
Treasury Management.indb 272 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
 ACCOUNTING/
VALUATION
STRUCTURE
22.0 Objective
22.1 Accounting
22.2 Profit Accounting
22.3 Valuation
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
22
Treasury Management.indb 273 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
274 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
22.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide necessary information on the classification of investments like HTM, HFT and AFS 
and valuation methodologies for various types of securities, accounting and provisioning norms for 
non-standard assets.
22.1 ACCOUNTING
1. The investment portfolio of the bank will include marketable debt, equity and quasi-debt/
equity instruments. A bank’s investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures also form part of 
the investment portfolio.
2. The RBI stipulates that the entire investment portfolio of a bank should be classified into the 
following three categories:
(a) Held to Maturity (HTM).
(b) Held for Trading (HFT).
(c) Available for Sale (AFS).
3. This classification is necessary only for profit accounting and valuation purposes. Balance 
sheet classification and disclosures will continue on the existing practice basis wherein all 
investments will be shown at cost or market price whichever is lower. In order that the approach 
to valuation is consistent and to ensure that banks do not change the category on the face of 
adversity it has been stipulated that a bank should decide to which of the three categories a 
security belongs at the time of its acquisition.
22.2 PROFIT ACCOUNTING
(a) General Principles
• Accrued (broken period) interest paid when buying securities is expensed.
• Accrued interest received when securities are sold is treated as income.
• Book values are, therefore, clean prices (net of adjustments below).
• Brokerage received (e.g., when investing in a new issue) is deducted from the cost of 
acquisition.
• Brokerage paid (when buying/selling) is expensed.
• All inter-category transfers must be at the lower of market price/book value. Depreciation, 
if any, should be fully provided for.
(b) HTM
Profits/losses from sales are first taken to P&L and then appropriated to Capital Reserves.
(c) HFT
Profit/loss is defined as the difference between sales and purchase prices (both on clean basis). 
If purchases and sales are in different unequal tranches, it is left to the discretion of treasury 
to match purchases and sales on FIFO, LIFO or (weighted) average prices.
Profits/losses in the HFT portfolio directly impinge upon operating results.
Treasury Management.indb 274 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
ACCOUNTING/VALUATION FINANCIAL MARKETS275 275
(d) AFS
Depending upon the bank’s policies, the cost of sales could be based on FIFO, LIFO or 
weighted average price of inventory. As in the case of HFT securities, realised profits/losses 
squarely impact current performance.
Capital Charge
As an initial step towards prescribing capital requirement for market risk, banks were advised to:
(i) assign an additional risk weight of 2.5 per cent on the entire investment portfolio.
(ii) assign a risk weight of 100 per cent on the open position limits on foreign exchange and gold, 
and
(iii) build up investment fluctuation reserve up to a maximum of 5 per cent of the investments 
held in HFT and AFS categories
22.3 VALUATION
Valuation Principles (enunciated by the RBI and operationalized by FIMMDA) of securities are as 
under. Under these guidelines banks have to classify their investments into Held to Maturity, AFS 
(Available for Sale) and HFT (Held for Trading). This classification is important for valuation of 
securities. Normally once a security is classified under one of these categories the banks/institutions 
are not permitted to change the classification. This is because the valuation norms should not be 
used to artificially enhance the profit.
(a) HTM (Held till/to Maturity)
All investments in the HTM category will be valued at acquisition cost (unless the asset 
requires provisioning because of interest and/or principal arrears, in which case the RBI’s 
provisioning and valuation norms will apply). If the redemption value is less than acquisition 
cost, the difference must be amortized over the years remaining to maturity. Such amortization 
expense will be debited to Interest Account.
HTM investments need not be marked-to-market.
 Marked to market indicates that if the current market price of a security is lower than the 
acquisition price, the bank should make appropriate provisioning in the books of account.
(b) HFT
Individual securities in the HFT category must be compulsorily marked-to-market.
Appreciation will be ignored while depreciation will flow straight to the profit and loss account. 
However, book values of these securities will not change. Valuation should be done monthly 
or at more frequent intervals.
(c) AFS
 AFS will also be marked-to-market as in the case of HFT. Depreciation should be charged to 
P&L. It can be absorbed by transfer to P&L from Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR). In case 
depreciation provision is no longer necessary, it is credited to ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ 
and an equivalent amount is appropriated to IFR.
Treasury Management.indb 275 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
276 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
22.3.1 Portfolio Valuation
For both HFT and AFS, a portfolio approach to provisioning may be adopted. This means that the 
appreciation/depreciation of each security in the category is calculated. If the overall effect is positive, 
it is ignored; however, if negative, it must be charged to P&L.
22.3.2 Valuation Methodology
(a) G-Secs
 The steps involved are:
• Classify portfolio into HTM, HFT and AFS categories.
• HTM portfolio need not be marked-to-market.
• HFT and AFS categories must be marked-to-market.
• The valuation of individual securities as indicated by FIMMDA will form the basis of 
valuation of SLR securities.
(b) T-bills
As per Ind AS (Indian Accounting Standards), beginning from April 2017, T Bills are to be 
marked to market at prices given out by FIMMDA.
(c) State Government Securities
As per Ind AS (Indian Accounting Standards), beginning from April 2017, State Development 
Loans are to be marked to market at prices given out by FIMMDA.
(d) Other SLR Securities
These are valued on terms identical to State Government securities.
(e) Valuation of Corporate and Bank/FI Bonds
(i) Rated Bonds
Are valued on the basis of FIMMDA published risk spread.
• FIMMDA publishes the credit risk spread over the yield on G-Secs for various maturities 
and credit ratings on the rating scale.
• The valuation of a given bond is the yield for the benchmark G-Secs of the same (residual) 
maturity (interpolated, if necessary, for the broken period) plus the spread for the risk 
premium applicable for the credit rating of the bond.
• If the bond has two ratings, the lower should be adopted for valuation.
• For a rating to be valid, it should not be more than 12 months old.
• The minimum spread over G-Secs of bonds issued by FIs should be 10bp.
• Unrated Bonds
• If the same issuer has a rated bond whose maturity is within 6 months of that of the unrated 
bond, banks must use that rating and follow the procedure described above for rated bonds 
and mark up the resultant yield by 20% (i.e., 6% becomes 7.2%).
• If no rated bond of the same issuer exists, the bank should get a quick rating from a credit 
rating agency and mark it up by 25%. Alternatively, find the yield spread over G-Secs for 
the bond at the time of issue and increase this by 25%.
Treasury Management.indb 276 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
ACCOUNTING/VALUATION FINANCIAL MARKETS277 277
• This should then be compared with yields on ‘AAA’ bonds of similar tenure and the higher 
of the two should be adopted.
• Pre-1996 unrated bonds should be valued at cost.
(ii) Bonds with Simultaneous Call/Put Options
 For valuation purpose the nearest callable/puttable dates are taken as the maturity of such 
bonds. Then the valuation is done on the basis of methods given above.
If interest/principal is in arrears, these valuations do not hold.
(iii) Bonds with Call or Put Option
In these cases, for valuation purposes the earliest call date or put date should be considered. 
The YTM for these dates are derived as above. These are termed the yield-to-worst for callable 
bonds and yield-to-best for puttable bonds.
(iv) MIBOR – linked Bonds
 The Overnight Index Swap (OIS) rates will be used to convert MIBOR into a fixed rate coupon 
for the residual maturity of the bond. The spread over MIBOR is added to this rate to arrive 
at the applicable fixed rate coupon for valuing the bond.
(v) Tax-free Bonds
In these cases the coupon is grossed up by (1 minus tax rate). After this the valuation is done 
as if it is a bond like an ‘AAA’ for the residual maturity from the credit risk spread table.
(vi) Capital-Indexed Bonds
These bonds are valued at cost.
(vii) Priority Sector Bonds
 Valued like AAA bonds from credit risk spread table for the residual maturity. As interest is 
paid semi-annually, the credit risk spread applicable is converted to semi-annual basis and 
added to the semi-annualized base yield curve.
(viii) Unrated Non-SLR Government-Guaranteed Bonds
For valuation purposes the spreads over base yield curve at the time of issue apply.
• Mark up the spread by 25% for unrated corporate bonds. If the resultant yield is less than 
that of AAA bonds of the same residual tenure, adopt the latter.
• Mark up the spread by 15% for unrated government-guaranteed non-SLR bonds if the 
issue is more than 12 months old.
• Mark up the spread by 25% for preference shares.
(ix) Securitized Debt/PTCs
These are valued as per valuation of Corporate Bonds.
(f) Preference Shares
 These are valued at the spread over the sovereign risk free yield curve at the time of issue 
marked up by 25% and added to the YTM rate applicable to G-Secs of similar residual tenure 
or the dividend rate of preference shares, whichever is higher. YTM has to be increased by at 
least 15% if dividend is in arrears. Preference shares issued for project finance is to be valued 
at par for two years after production starts or five years after subscription, whichever is earlier.
Treasury Management.indb 277 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
278 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
 The above is subject to the valuation, not in any case, exceeding that of G-Secs of the same 
maturity and/or rated equivalent preference shares. Also, in rehab cases, the YTM should be at 
least 1.5% above equivalent G-Secs. No valuation more than the redemption price is allowed. 
Stock exchange price is to be adopted if traded in the last 15 days.
(g) Equity Shares
Equity shares are valued at Stock exchange prices or book value for unquoted shares. It would 
be advisable to deduct intangibles (e.g. miscellaneous expenses) and debit balance to P&L of 
the issuing company before arriving at the book value, from published audited accounts of 
the Company which are not more than twelve months old as on valuation date. If book value 
is not available, the shares are to be valued at Rupee 1 per Company.
(h) Mutual Funds
 The investment in mutual funds are valued at repurchase price or stock exchange price whichever 
is lower. In the case of close ended schemes the NAV published by the AMC is used.
(i) Commercial Paper/Certificates of Deposit
As per Ind AS (Indian Accounting Standards), beginning from April 2017, CPs and CDs are 
to be marked to market at prices given out by FIMMDA.
(j) Valuation of Swaps
If a quote is available in the market for the same type of swap for the residual maturity:
• the swap should be valued on the basis of such quote.
If no quote is available:
• Where, a Government of India security benchmark is used for a swap transaction, the base 
yield curve will be used for valuing the swap.
FIMMDA also publishes the swap benchmarks on a daily basis. Where the following 
benchmarks are used for swap transactions, they will also be used for valuing the swap:
• FIMMDA-NSE MIBID/MIBOR
• FIMMDA-Reuters MIFOR/FIMMDA-Reuters MITOR/FIMMDA-Reuters MIOIS/ 
FIMMDA-Reuters MIOCS
• FIMMDA-Money line Telerate Commercial Paper
FIMMDA, FEDAI and IBA have jointly floated Financial Benchmarks India Ltd (FBIL), which is 
tasked with publishing benchmark rates.
22.3.4 FIMMDA-Money line Telerate Treasury Bill
In respect of the others, they should be valued at the same benchmarks that were used at the time 
of entering into the swap transaction.
Accounting and Provisioning Norms for Non-Standard Assets
(a) An investment is classified as non-performing if interest/principal remains overdue for a 
period of 90 days.
Treasury Management.indb 278 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
ACCOUNTING/VALUATION FINANCIAL MARKETS279 279
(b) Income should not be recognized on assets classified as sub-standard, doubtful or loss assets.
(c) Provisioning for NPAs is to be done as in credit cases.
If interests/principals are in arrears, these valuations do not hold good.
Let Us Sum Up
The classification of investments into HFT, HTM and AFS and the valuation of various instruments 
like T-bills, rated bonds, unrated bonds, capital indexed bonds, etc., have been dealt with.
Keywords
HTM, HFT, AFS, capital charge, Rated bonds, unrated bonds, bonds with simultaneous call/put 
options, Mibor linked bonds, tax-free bonds, capital indexed bonds, securitized debt and PTCs.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Which one of the following is not one of the classifications of investments which RBI 
recommends for banks?
(a) Held for evaluation
(b) Held till maturity
(c) Held for trading
(d) Available for sale
2. What is the valuation method for investments under HTM category in which the principal is 
in arrears?
(a) to be valued at acquisition cost
(b) RBI’s valuation norms apply
(c) marked to market
(d) marked to market and then discounted at market rate
3. How are T bills to be valued?
(a) At acquisition cost
(b) At rates given by CCIL
(c) Marked to market at prices given out by FIMMDA
(d) Market to market at average prices polled by select five banks
4. How are investments in close ended mutual funds valued?
(a) Repurchase price
(b) Stock exchange price
(c) At rates given by AMFI
(d) At NAV published by AMC
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 279 6/19/2018 6:24:09 PM
EXPOSURE NORMS
STRUCTURE
23.0 Objective
23.1 Need for Exposure Norms
23.2 Credit Risk
23.3 Market Risk
23.4 Settlement Risk
23.5 Limits on Brokers
23.6 Operational Risk
23.7 Limits on SWIFT Transmission
23.8 Limits on Dealers
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
23
Treasury Management.indb 280 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
EXPOSURE NORMS FINANCIAL MARKETS281 281
23.0 OBJECTIVE
This section provides various exposure norms that the banks follow to mitigate/manage various 
types of risks in the conduct of their Forex and other businesses.
The treasury operates in markets that are characterized by volatility, be it forex, securities, money, 
equities, or derivatives market. Market volatility is a function of the demand and supply, speculators, 
arbitrageurs and hedgers, the policies of governments, the guidelines of the Regulator, and the moves 
by the market players. Whereas, volatility provides opportunities to dealers to make/maximise 
profits, it poses a number of challenges. A market without volatility is dull, and is of no interest to 
dealers, whereas a market with lot of volatility is risky, and requires to be handled with utmost care 
and caution.
It is evident that a volatile market provides opportunities, and could be equally risky; it, therefore, 
becomes all the more important to discipline the level of risk taking, and restrict dealers from 
venturing into unknown terrains. It is necessary to provide speed breakers, and also to provide 
direction to the dealers with the objective of controlling the risks. The dealers or the front office 
is like a railway engine with enough auto power to move and proceed forward to explore, and it 
requires a Mid office or Risk Management department, like a guard, to show red flag and apply 
brakes and provide direction. One of the measures of restricting risk taking to predetermined levels 
is prescribing appropriate exposure norms.
23.1 NEED FOR EXPOSURE NORMS
As the volatility in prices/rates leads to market risk, it is essential to contain the risk within acceptable 
limits having regard to the risk appetite and culture of the organization by putting in place various 
limits. Exposure limits help control/contain the credit risk, and concentration risk by stipulating 
monetary limits on various aspects. These limits help the organization to control the risk and probable 
loss. The limits also will take away unbridled freedom from the dealers, which may lead to financial 
losses that the organization may find difficult to absorb.
23.2 CREDIT RISK
The credit risk in treasury is less pronounced as compared to market risk, because the majority of 
counter parties that the treasury deals with are banks whose credit rating is definitely a notch above 
the individuals and corporates. However, the treasuries will have policies in place to assume credit 
exposures during the course of their activities.
• Credit Risk: Quantitative controls: Quantitative limits help the dealing room avoid 
concentration risk and credit risk. Quantitative exposure limits could be in terms of counter 
party limits, wherein the counter parties are identified and credit appraisals are done to ascertain 
their net worth and counter party limits are fixed. These limits are generally determined in 
terms of the net worth of the bank or the net worth of the counter party banks. The market 
developments/reports in respect of the counter party are closely monitored, and the limits 
are fine-tuned with regard to the developments. Thus, the limit fixation is a dynamic process 
Treasury Management.indb 281 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
282 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
which automatically takes into account the changes in the credit worthiness of the counter 
party. These limits include per party/per deal limits, which act as brakes on the dealers.
• Further, separate limits are earmarked for Forex dealing and Forex lending activities. Under 
both the heads there may be distinct limits for short term exposures like spot and overnight 
placements, and forwards and long term placements. The exposure limits for foreign branches, 
if any, will also be incorporated in the same policy. Further, the exposures that the designated 
branches take are also incorporated. Thus, the limits represent global limits of banks on 
counter party banks. Reserve Bank of India requires banks to monitor the counter party 
exposures globally, and on real time basis. Thus, the exposures are captured globally on line 
and monitored on a daily basis. Further, the powers are delegated to different functionaries 
so as to enable effective and smooth functioning. The exceptions are monitored on a regular 
basis, and it will be ensured that the global exposure remains within the approved limit which 
again has a relation to the net worth of the bank, or the net worth of the counter party.
• Credit Risk Qualitative controls: Qualitative limits represent the control of quality of the 
portfolio that helps prevent deterioration in the quality of assets. Examples are, limits on tenor 
instruments, exposure to an entity rated ‘AAA’, exposure to instruments rated ‘AAA’, etc. 
Prescribing exit routes when there is impairment of quality of an exposure is also a qualitative 
control measure. In areas where credit rating is not available, the banks may identify counter 
parties based on net worth. Fixing the progressively reducing limits of exposure is a technique 
designed to control the quality of exposures. The qualitative controls/limits provide the desired 
direction to the dealers.
23.3 MARKET RISK
Is the risk arising out of the movement of market variables/parameters like, exchange rates, interest 
rates, equity prices, and commodity prices. Treasury is exposed to more pronounced market risk 
because the treasury deals in foreign exchange, government securities, and equities. Hence, there is 
a great need to measure, control, and monitor the market risk in treasury. Precisely for this purpose, 
various limits must be put in place to minimize/eliminate market risk. Some of the limits/norms are 
discussed here below:
• Market Risk: Intra-day limit/Daylight limit: In treasury intra-day/daylight limits are 
prescribed to the dealers. This is aimed at controlling the market risk during the day/during 
trading hours. The dealers are supposed to strictly adhere to these limits during the periods 
of trading. Any exceptions will be monitored by Mid office and the dealers have to provide 
explanation for the deviation. As a practice, exceptions should not happen. In forex there may 
be currency-wise limits or sometimes consolidated intra-day limits. In money market there 
could be per transaction volume. The prerequisites for effective adherence to daylight limits are, 
availability of adequate counterparty limits, expertise of dealers in cover operations, effective 
communication systems, availability of dedicated on-line trading systems with various counter 
parties, empanelment of good/effective brokers, and perfect co-ordination between various 
sections of the treasury. The intra-day limits are generally larger as compared to overnight 
open position limits as the dealers will be in a position to cover the deal in the market which 
is active. Intraday limit should be higher at the dealer level where the decision time is less 
Treasury Management.indb 282 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
EXPOSURE NORMS FINANCIAL MARKETS283 283
as compared to those investments where decision time is more. For example, call money 
decisions are rather instantaneous, whereas term money decisions need not be instantaneous. 
One of the limits in the securities market could be in terms of deals routed through brokers 
where in it could be stipulated that not more than 5% of transactions could be routed through 
one approved broker. Stipulation of these limits call for detailed analysis of funds in hand, 
volume of transactions, etc., lest the limit constrain the normal level of treasury activities.
• Market Risk – Overnight open position limit: In addition to intra-day limit, one regulatory 
prescription for effective monitoring of market risk in forex market is Net overnight open 
position limit (NOOPL). This limit quantifies the open position of the dealing room during 
the night. As the exchange rates/prices are likely to move swiftly during the long period of 
night, and as also there will be no active market to cover, the overnight open position limit 
is relatively smaller than the intra-day limit. The banks are required to obtain approval of 
Reserve Bank of India for the overnight open position limit. Banks monitor the overnight open 
position limit on a daily basis, and report on-line to RBI in daily statement called GPB (Gap, 
Position, and Balance). The Reserve Bank of India has issued detailed guidelines to compute 
overnight open position. The components that go into the computation overnight open position 
limit include the open position on account of cash transactions, the open position on account 
of accrued incomes and expenses, the position arising out of devolvement of any contingent 
liabilities like Bank guarantees, open position of overseas branches, if any, and also the delta 
value of derivatives, if any. The overnight open position limit is monitored on a global basis. 
Reserve Bank of India has also directed that the banks could follow the short hand method 
while computing overnight open position limit. The short hand method involves reckoning the 
higher of the overbought and oversold positions calculated separately. Presently, the regulatory 
guidelines stipulate considering the NPV (Net Present Value) for the O/N position, which the 
banks are following.
• Market Risk – Aggregate Gap Limit (AGL): This is another limit that addresses the market 
risk in the dealing room. The gaps or uncovered positions that are sensitive to market risk are 
aggregated without reference to signs and monitored against a sanctioned limit.
• Market Risk – Stop Loss Limit: The stop loss limits are meant to stop the loss when a position 
is initiated. When a position initiated, starts incurring loss, the stop loss is triggered when that 
loss is equal to the limit fixed. Stop loss indicates that once the limit is reached or breached the 
dealer should exit the position. This way the loss is contained within the limits accepted which 
again reflect the risk appetite of the bank/organization. This is a very effective tool for containing 
the market risk. The dealers are strictly advised to adhere to the stop loss limits, and come out 
of the position when warranted. The stop loss limits are fixed in various ways like stop loss 
limit per deal, stop loss limit per trading session, stop loss limit per day, stop loss limit for the 
dealing room, etc. The limits are strictly monitored and exceptions are viewed seriously. Stop 
loss limits should be viewed by the dealer as a mandate. A dealer could be asked to explain why 
a stop loss limit was not adhered. A stop loss may not be adhered to if the liquidity position of 
the market does not allow the exit. These aspects must be closely monitored.
• Book profit or Take Profit Limit: Take profit limit, is a limit given to the dealers, a point at 
which the dealers are expected to book the profit and come out without waiting for further 
profits. This eliminates a situation where dealers may land in loss while waiting for more 
profits. This is a conservative approach to avoid losses in the dealing room.
Treasury Management.indb 283 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
284 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Market Risk – Value at Risk Limit (VAR): Value at risk measures and quantifies the probable 
loss that a position or a portfolio may incur, should the market variables move adversely. 
VaR is a statistical tool that measures the market risk with a certain confidence level within a 
specified time horizon. The Board approved limits for VaR will be put in place, in respective 
banks, which serves as another effective control over market risk. There may be different 
VaR models that capture different market situations. Banks must select the model that suits 
the nature and complexity of their business. Presently, Indian banks are following a model 
given by FEDAI. However, with the implementation Basel II, RBI has advised the banks 
to capture risk using advanced measurement approach. Probably, banks will move over to 
their own VaR models in time, that realistically reflect the market risk of their portfolios and 
achieve capital efficiency.
• Effective Monitoring of Market Risk: The existence of AGL and VaR limits serves as 
an effective tool to control/monitor market risk. VaR is a reflection of volatility, more the 
volatility, the more the VaR. In moments of high volatility, VaR limit may be touched while 
AGL may still be available. In moments of low volatility, AGL limit may be touched while 
VaR limit may still be available. Thus, a combination of AGL and VaR limits may be useful 
to monitor market risk, both in times of low volatility and high volatility.
23.4 SETTLEMENT RISK
Settlement risk is the risk: when a counterparty does not deliver a security, or its value, in cash as 
per agreement; when the security was traded after the other counter party or counter parties have 
already delivered security or cash value as per the trade agreement.
One of the well-known settlement risks is foreign exchange settlement risk or cross-currency 
settlement risk, sometimes called Herstatt risk after the German bank, Bankhaus Herstatt, that made a 
famous example of the risk. On 26 June 1974, the bank’s license was withdrawn by German regulators 
at the end of the banking day (4:30 pm local time), because of a lack of income and capital to cover 
liabilities that were due. But some banks had undertaken foreign exchange transactions with Herstatt, 
and had already paid Deutsche Mark to the bank during the day, believing they would receive US 
dollars later the same day in the US from Herstatt’s US nostro. But, after 4:30 pm in Germany, and 
10:30 am in New York, Herstatt stopped all dollar payments to counter parties, leaving the counter 
parties unable to collect their payment. The closing of Drexel Burnham Lambert in 1990 did not 
cause similar problems, because the Bank of England had set up a special scheme which ensured that 
payments were completed. Barings’ shutdown in 1995 resulted in minor losses for counterparties in 
the foreign exchange market because of a specific complexity in the ECU clearing system.
23.4.1 Mitigating Settlement Risk
• Delivery versus payment: This is the method adopted by the RBI for settlement of security 
transactions through SGL account. Herein the payment of cash by the buyer, and delivery of 
security by the seller is effected simultaneously, such that settlement risk is totally eliminated.
• Settlement via clearing houses.
Treasury Management.indb 284 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
EXPOSURE NORMS FINANCIAL MARKETS285 285
• Foreign exchange settlement using continuous linked settlement.
• CCIL has introduced guaranteed spot and forward deal settlement in foreign exchange thus 
fully eliminating counter party and settlement risks as CCIL acts as the central counter party.
Banks put in place, settlement limits on each counter party bank to reduce/mitigate the settlement risk.
• Pre-settlement risk: For determining the credit exposure to individual/group borrowers, the 
forward contracts in foreign exchange, and other foreign exchange derivative products, such 
as currency swaps, options, etc., should be included in their replacement cost to determine 
the individual/group borrower exposures.
• The current exposure method:
 For the purpose of exposure norms, banks shall compute their credit exposures, arising on 
account of the interest rate & foreign exchange derivative transactions and gold, using the 
‘Current Exposure Method’, as detailed below. While computing the credit exposure banks 
may exclude ‘sold options’, provided the entire premium / fee or any other form of income 
is received/realised.
 Bilateral netting of Mark-To-Market (MTM) values arising on account of such derivative 
contracts cannot be permitted. Accordingly, banks should count their gross positive MTM 
value of such contracts for the purposes of capital adequacy as well as for exposure norms.
(i) The credit equivalent amount of a market related off-balance sheet transaction calculated 
using the current exposure method is the sum of current credit exposure and potential 
future credit exposure of these contracts.
(ii) Current credit exposure is defined as the sum of the positive mark-to-market value of 
these contracts. The Current Exposure Method requires periodical calculation of the 
current credit exposure by marking these contracts to market, thus capturing the current 
credit exposure.
(iii) Potential future credit exposure is determined by multiplying the notional principal amount 
of each of these contracts irrespective of whether the contract has a zero, positive or 
negative mark-to-market value by the relevant add-on factor indicated below according 
to the nature and residual maturity of the instrument.
Residual Maturity Conversion factor to be applied on notional principal 
amount
Interest rate contracts Exchange rate contracts & Gold
One Year or less 0.50% 2.00%
Over One year to Five years 1.00% 10.00%
(iv) For contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the add-on factors are to be multiplied 
by the number of remaining payments in the contract.
(v) For contracts that are structured to settle outstanding exposure following specified 
payment dates and where the terms are reset such that the market value of the contract 
is zero on these specified dates, the residual maturity would be set equal to the time until 
the next reset date. However, in the case of interest rate contracts which have residual 
maturities of more than one year and meet the foregoing criteria, the CCF or “add-on 
factor” applicable shall be subject to a floor of 1.00 per cent.
Treasury Management.indb 285 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
286 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(vi) No potential future credit exposure would be calculated for single currency floating /
floating interest rate swaps; the credit exposure on these contracts would be evaluated 
solely on the basis of their mark-to-market value.
(vii) Potential future exposures should be based on effective rather than apparent notional 
amounts. In the event that the stated notional amount is leveraged or enhanced by 
the structure of the transaction, banks must use the effective notional amount when 
determining potential future exposure. For example, a stated notional amount of USD 1 
million with payments based on an internal rate of two times the Base Rate would have 
an effective notional amount of USD 2 million.
23.5 LIMITS ON BROKERS
The forex brokers are accredited by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI), and 
the banks use the services of brokers to obtain finer rates, and to improve the ease of functioning in 
the dealing room. As a prudent policy, banks keep in place restrictions on the quantum of business 
routed through approved brokers or on the quantum of brokerage paid to the brokers. In the case of 
securities, and bond market the banks follow a procedure of fixing an appropriate limit to each broker, 
such that all transactions are not routed through a single broker. This helps in avoiding concentration.
23.6 OPERATIONAL RISK
To ensure that the dealers quote rates, related to market rates as per the prescribed policy, the rate 
chart is generated for a defined number of times in a day (say 5 times, 8 times), and the dealt rates 
are compared with the market rates, to identify transactions that are done at rates that are not market 
related. The exceptions are investigated and rectified. The exceptions are also captured in terms of 
variations of certain percentage from the market rate and analyzed. The dealing room is provided 
with market information by giving access to information screens such as Reuter and Bloomberg to 
each dealer.
23.7 LIMITS ON SWIFT TRANSMISSION
Threshold limits are put in place for different currencies, beyond which transmission through 
SWIFT is captured and separately authorised. This enables the bank to monitor the unusually large 
transmissions, and acts as a check on Back office.
23.8 LIMITS ON DEALERS
Limits may be placed on individual dealers for each deal, or one currency may be assigned to one 
dealer, or cumulative trading volumes may be defined to mitigate and monitor operational risk. The 
job rotation policies, and the compulsory leave arrangements of dealers are some of the tools used 
to have an effective check on dealers.
Treasury Management.indb 286 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
EXPOSURE NORMS FINANCIAL MARKETS287 287
Let Us Sum Up
Exposure limits help control/contain the credit risk and concentration risk by stipulating monetary 
limits on various aspects. Banks prescribe quantitative as well as qualitative limits. They prescribe 
intra-day, overnight, AGL, stop loss, Take profit and VaR limits to manager market risks. Settlement 
and pre-settlement risks are also monitored. Replacement costs are arrived at by following current 
exposure method. Limits on brokers and dealers are also fixed to ensure effective risk management.
Keywords
Credit risk, market risk, intra-day/overnight open position limits, AGL, Value at Risk, Herstatt risk, 
current exposure method
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is the logic for Intra-day limit being generally bigger than overnight limit?
(a) The dealers can cover the deals in active day-time markets
(b) Dealers will be absent during night times
(c) Volatility is more during night times
(d) The systems are shut down during night times
2. Overnight open position limits are now being computed as per RBI directives on ________
(a) Consolidated basis
(b) Net present value basis
(c) Currency basis
(d) Approximate basis
3. Continuous Linked Settlement (CLS) is devised to handle what type of risk?
(a) Linkage risk
(b) Continuity risk
(c) Settlement risk
(d) Technology risk
4. The credit equivalent amount of a market related off-balance sheet transaction calculated 
using the current exposure method is the sum of Current exposure and
(a) Market value
(b) Discounted value
(c) Future credit exposure
(d) Potential future credit exposure
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 287 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
 INTERNAL AND
EXTERNAL AUDIT
STRUCTURE
24.0 Objective
24.1 Internal Checks/Control
24.2 Concurrent Audit
24.3 External Checks/Audits
24.4 Inspection by RBI
24.5 Statutory Audit
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
24
Treasury Management.indb 288 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDIT FINANCIAL MARKETS289 289
24.0 OBJECTIVE
To explain various types of internal and external surveillance that the Treasuries are subjected to 
during their functioning.
In the recent years, treasuries have emerged as profit centres for banks, and are considered as an 
important SBU of the banks, as they have started trading in various instruments, be it in the forex 
market, money market or derivative market. The volume of business and transactions handled by 
treasuries are usually very large and, hence, has potential for high profits and high risks. Thus, treasury 
is a specialized area with a lot of focus on profit and regulatory compliance. Because of the sheer 
volumes, and the impact of treasury on the whole balance sheet of the banks, there is a lot of focus 
on the functioning of the treasury department/function of banks. Precisely for this reason, banks have 
put in place a rigorous internal inspection and audit system that serves to mitigate the operational risk, 
and ensures regulatory compliance. The Regulator also appreciates the importance and significance of 
treasuries, and undertakes periodical scrutiny of the books of the treasury through detailed inspections.
24.1 INTERNAL CHECKS/CONTROL
As a measure of internal check and control, as we have seen earlier, the bank’s treasury is divided 
into front office, back office, and middle office with specific and exclusive functions which ensure 
checks and balances. In addition, banks have a system of ensuring periodical, generally quarterly, 
inspections by internal inspectors of the treasuries. These inspections are transaction based, and are 
aimed at unearthing income lost, if any, and also non-compliance with various guidelines. The books 
are thoroughly verified and the transactions are critically examined and reports are submitted to the 
controlling authority which ensures rectification of the lapses pointed out. This serves as a first layer 
of surveillance of the treasury operations.
There is also generally a more detailed scrutiny by the authorities at the bank at approximately annual 
rests. These investigations are generally done by Senior Officials, and cover the entire gamut of 
operations in treasury. The rectification reports are submitted to the senior officials, and this exercise 
greatly helps in reducing the operational risk, and in improving the culture of regulatory compliance.
24.2 CONCURRENT AUDIT
The treasury function is also subject to concurrent audit. There is a mandatory system of concurrent 
audit by external auditors of all treasuries. Auditors with repute and expertise in treasury functioning 
are appointed by the bank to conduct concurrent audits of the treasuries. The concurrent audit goes on 
simultaneously as the treasury is functioning, and it is considered a micro audit. Concurrent audit goes 
thorough each transaction to ensure adherence to set procedures. It looks closely into the adherence 
of various exposure limits, dealer limits, and the processes. The reports of such audit are generally 
submitted once a month directly to Head office. The treasuries are under obligation to provide all details 
and information to the auditors, and offer valid explanation to all exceptions. The rectification reports 
need to be expeditiously submitted to the Competent Authority, generally the Audit Committee of the 
Board (ACB). The closure of these periodical reports assumes a lot of importance, and the Regulator 
also will be looking at these reports to gauge the extent of regulatory compliance by the treasury.
Treasury Management.indb 289 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
290 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
24.3 EXTERNAL CHECKS/AUDITS
The nature of the concurrent and external audits is changing now, and becoming more of risk-based 
audits than transaction-based inspections. The auditors identify the risks in various situations of treasury, 
and also grade the risks as low, medium, and high and also quantify the impact on the unit. They further 
try to identify the direction of the risk by categorically stating whether a risk is rising, decreasing, 
or stable. The risk-based scrutiny of the treasuries will be very helpful to the bank management for 
understanding the level of operational and other risks that the bank is driven to assume by the treasury. 
Under the risk-based audit, the auditors try to assess the competence levels of the personnel manning 
the treasuries to ascertain their suitability to the job, and the dangers they pose to the bank in terms of 
operational risk. They also focus on the training and skill-up gradation programs of key personnel in 
dealing room and mid office, and report on skill gaps. The underlying principle of the risk-based audit 
is to identify new risks as they appear, and put in place effective systems to address and mitigate them.
24.4 INSPECTION BY RBI
Another important type of external audit is the inspection of treasury by Reserve Bank of India as 
part of Annual Financial Inspection (AFI) of the bank at yearly rests. This inspection will be a very 
elaborate and detailed one, covering all important aspects of treasury. The inspectors will look into 
various policies formulated by the treasuries to determine whether they conform to the regulatory 
guidelines. They will also comment on the deviations, adherence to stop loss limits, adherence to 
entry/exit level criteria in the purchase/sale of securities, the classification of investments under HFT, 
AFS, and HTM category, correctness of the calculations of CAR, and adequacy of provisions, etc., 
in a very detailed manner. The treasuries are required to attend to rectification of the observations in 
AFI report on priority, and submit their report to RBI. The culmination of the AFI exercise is a very 
high level meeting between the Bank represented by CMD, and RBI represented by its Executive 
Director. RBI shares its views, and renders advice to the Bank.
24.5 STATUTORY AUDIT
The Statutory Central Auditors of Public Sector Banks are selected and appointed by the Boards of 
Banks with the final approval of RBI to conduct the audit of the bank every year. In case of Private 
Sector/Foreign Banks, the appointment of Statutory Central Auditors will be made on an annual 
basis, subject to their fulfilling the eligibility norms prescribed by RBI and applicable provisions of 
Companies Act, 2013, and also subject to their suitability. These auditors are drawn from reputed 
chartered accountant firms following some laid down norms. As a part of the statutory audit, these 
firms also audit the treasury function in a detailed fashion. Here the focus will be to generally bring 
out the true nature of the balance sheet by insisting on various statutory disclosures. The bank has 
to provide all disclosures to project the risk profile of the treasury honestly.
Off-site surveillance:
The Reserve Bank further compiles quarterly risk profile of treasuries by calling for detailed 
information from the banks. This gives a clear picture of the progress of the treasury in risk profiling 
of its activities, and it helps in understanding its own position.
Treasury Management.indb 290 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDIT FINANCIAL MARKETS291 291
Further, RBI conducts periodical surveys like survey on unclassified receipts, survey on OTC 
derivatives, etc. Even though they are not in the nature of inspections/audits, they provide vital 
information to the public and analysts and, hence, serve as useful tools to banks that examine 
important segments of their business.
Board Review:
The Inspection reports, audit observations, and other feedback must be reviewed by the bank with regular 
periodicity. Board must closely look at the risk aspects, and issue appropriate guidelines to the treasury.
Let Us Sum Up
The internal checks include quarterly internal audits, concurrent audits by external auditors, riskbased audits, etc. Reserve Bank of India does a thorough inspection in the form of Annual Financial 
Inspection which is an external inspection. Statutory auditors complete the external scrutiny of the 
treasury operations.
Keywords
Concurrent Auditors, risk-based audit, skill-up gradation, AFI and Statutory Audit
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is concurrent audit?
(a) Audit done concurrently along with operations
(b) That done by RBI
(c) That done by expert auditors
(d) Annual Financial Inspection
2. During risk-based audit, what auditors do in addition to grading the risks as low, medium and high?
(a) Identify the seepage of income (b) Identify the direction of the risk
(c) Identify the culprits (d) Penalize the bank
3. Internal checks and controls are useful to address which type of risk?
(a) internal risks (b) uncontrolled risks
(c) operational risks (d) outlier risks
4. The important periodical inspection of banks done by RBI in thorough fashion is known by 
which name?
(a) Thorough Periodical Inspection(TPI) (b) Additional Fiscal introspection AFI)
(c) Aided Future Insights (AFI) (d) Annual Financial Inspection (AFI)
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 291 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
 ROLE OF INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY IN
TREASURY 
MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE
25.0 Objective
25.1 Negotiated Dealing System
25.2 Other Trading Platforms/Systems
25.3 Straight-through-processing (STP)
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
25
Treasury Management.indb 292 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
ROLE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FINANCIAL MARKETS293 293
25.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide information on NDS, INFINET, other trading platforms, STP, custody, and conversion 
of physical securities to dematerialized form.
25.1 NEGOTIATED DEALING SYSTEM
Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) is an electronic platform for facilitating dealing in Government 
securities and money market instruments.
The Indian debt market has gone through sweeping changes with the introduction of the Negotiated 
Dealing System (NDS). This is an electronic trading platform for the following instruments:
• Government of India Dated Securities
• State Governments Securities
• T-bills
• Call/Notice/Term Money
• Commercial Paper
•	 Certificates of Deposit
• Repos
Membership of the NDS is open to all institutions that are members of INFINET, and have Subsidiary 
General Ledger (SGL) accounts with the RBI. At present, this covers the following:
• Banks
• Financial Institutions
• Primary Dealers
• Insurance Companies
• Mutual Funds
Banks and Primary Dealers are obliged to become members of the NDS.
NDS facilitates electronic submission of bids/application by members for primary issuance of 
government securities by RBI, through auction and floatation. The system of submission of
physical SGL transfer form for deals, done between members on implementation of NDS has been 
discontinued. NDS also provides interface to Securities Settlement System (SSS) of Public Debt 
Office, RBI, thereby, facilitating settlement of transactions in Government Securities including
treasury bills, both outright and repos.
NDS uses INFINET, a closed user group network as communication backbone. Hence, membership 
to the NDS is restricted to members of INFINET. Membership of INFINET entails holding SGL 
and/or current account with RBI or as may be prescribed from time to time.
Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) IN DETAIL
Till 2002, the Government securities market was mainly a telephone market. Buyers and sellers 
traded over telephone and submitted physical Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL) transfer forms for 
Chapter 16-26.indd 293 6/21/2018 5:06:00 PM
294 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
transfer of the Government securities and cheques for settlement of the funds to the Reserve Bank 
of India. These manual operations were inefficient and often resulted in delays. In order to improve 
efficiency in the market, the Reserve Bank of India took steps to automate the process of trading 
and settlement of Government securities transactions and the Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) 
was introduced in February 2002.
The Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) has two modules – one for the primary market and the other 
for the secondary market.
I. Primary Market Module
The Reserve Bank uses the primary auction platform (NDS Auction) for auction of both, dated 
securities of the Government of India and the State Governments as also, treasury bills. This platform 
allows participants to electronically submit their bids in the primary auctions and receive allotment 
reports.
Main features of the auction platform are:
(a) Creation of issues – The Reserve Bank creates a security issue giving the details of the security, 
the total amount (notified amount) and bidding date and timings, etc.
(b) Submission of bids – Member participants can click on the issue number and electronically 
submit bids by specifying the amount and price/yield at which they are willing to buy the 
securities.
(c) Processing of bids – The Reserve Bank processes the bids and arrives at the cut-off price/ 
yield depending on the format of the auction.
(d) Allotment advice – Once the cut-off price/yield is decided, the Reserve Bank accepts all the 
bids above and up to this cut-off price/yield. The system automatically generates participantwise reports of successful bids and electronically sends them to the participants.
(e) Settlement – The system generates a settlement report giving details of the amounts that each 
member has to pay and the quantity of securities to be issued to each participant. Based on 
this report, funds account of each member with the Reserve Bank is debited and securities 
account of each member with the Reserve Bank is credited. For constituent bids, accounts 
of their custodian banks/Primary Dealers get operated the same way. Primary Dealers are 
financial institutions that deal in Government securities. Custodian is the bank or primary 
dealer that maintains the Government securities account of individuals and small entities.
II. Secondary Market Module
Secondary market trading in Government securities can happen over-the-counter (OTC). These 
trades generally happen over phone. Players are required to report secondary market trades 
on the NDS. Once they complete the reporting process and the system accepts trades, the data 
automatically flows to the Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) for clearing and settlement 
(See box for CCIL). This avoids paper based settlement process. Paper based system required 
participants to exchange subsidiary general ledger (SGL) forms for transfer of securities and 
cheques for transfer of funds.
Treasury Management.indb 294 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
ROLE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FINANCIAL MARKETS295 295
The details of the trades reported on NDS are disseminated through the RBI web site http://www.
rbi.org.in/Scripts/NdsUserXsl.aspx
NDS-OM
The Reserve Bank introduced the Negotiated Dealing System-Order Matching system or NDS-OM 
as it is called, in August 2005. The NDS-OM is an electronic, screen based, anonymous, order driven 
trading system for dealing in Government securities. The Reserve Bank owns NDS-OM and CCIL 
maintains it. The platform is in addition to the existing facility of over-the-counter (OTC) or phone 
market in Government securities.
The NDS-OM brings transparency in secondary market transactions in Government securities. 
Members can place bids (buy orders) and offers (sell orders) directly on the NDS-OM screen. Being 
order driven, the system matches all bids and offers on price/time priority, that is, within the orders 
of the same price, it matches the oldest order first. The system ensures complete anonymity among
the participants as CCIL acts as the central counter party (CCP) for settlement of all the trades. The 
NDS-OM also facilitates straight-through-processing (STP), that is, all the trades on the system 
are automatically sent to the CCIL for settlement. With the efficiency and ease of its operations,
the NDS-OM has today captured over 80 per cent of the trading volume in Government securities.
The trade details of NDS-OM are disseminated through the CCIL’s website http://www.ccilindia.
com/OMHome.aspx. Only authorised users of the member entities can log in to the system.
Participants
There are two kinds of participants in NDS-OM – direct and indirect. Direct members have current 
and SGL accounts with the Reserve Bank and can directly settle their trades on NDS-OM. Indirect 
members are those players who do not have current and SGL accounts with the Reserve Bank and 
therefore have to trade on NDS-OM through members who have these accounts with the Reserve Bank.
All resident entities, including corporates but excluding individuals, can access NDS-OM, either 
directly or indirectly. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) have been provided indirect access.
More specifically, currently banks, including state cooperative banks, primary dealers(PDs), insurance
companies, mutual funds and larger provident funds have current and SGL accounts with the Reserve 
Bank and therefore can directly trade on NDS-OM.
Qualified entities,such as, non-banking finance companies(NBFCs),smaller provident funds, pension
funds, cooperative banks, regional rural banks and trusts, corporates and FIIs do not have current 
and SGL accounts with the Reserve Bank and therefore can only indirectly, that is, through banks 
and PDs, trade on NDS-OM.
Banks and PDs provide custodial services to indirect members by opening their securities and funds 
accounts. Indirect members can place orders through their custodian using client accounts. Such 
trades would finally settle through the Constituent SGL (CSGL) account and current account of the
custodian who is a direct member.
Chapter 16-26.indd 295 6/21/2018 5:06:00 PM
296 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
NDS-OM currently has direct membership from more than 130 financial institutions.
Who can be a member of NDS-OM?
Following are the prerequisites of obtaining membership of the NDS-OM:
• SGL account with the Reserve Bank
• Current account with Reserve Bank*
• INFINET (Indian Financial Network) connectivity
• Membership of CCIL
Why trade on NDS-OM?
• NDS-OM ensures anonymity of participants and, therefore, ensures objective pricing in the 
market. Since players know each other in market, in OTC trade, players can face adverse 
pricing.
• The system provides information, both pre-trade (e.g., bids/offers) and post-trade (e.g., 
last traded price and volume) on real time basis. This assures transparency and better price 
discovery as against the OTC market where there could be a delay of up to 30 minutes in 
information dissemination.
• Trading happens in standardised lot size of Rs. 5 crore and in multiples of Rs.5 crore providing 
enough liquidity in the system.
• To facilitate trading in small lot sizes of less than Rs. 5 crore, a separate ‘odd lot’ segment 
(with the minimum trading lot size being only Rs. 10,000) is also available.
• Participants get to know the depth of the market as the system shows the order depth in terms 
of number and total amount of sell/ buy orders for each security. This is not possible in OTC 
market.
• There is a high level of operational ease as the entire cycle of placing orders, trading and 
settlement of trades is fully automated.
• Once the trade is concluded on the system, it is treated as confirmed for settlement. In 
the OTC market, deals have to be confirmed on NDS and only then they are accepted for 
settlement.
• Reporting happens simultaneously with trades on NDS-OM; whereas in the OTC market 
participants need to report the transactions separately.
Features of NDS-OM
While there are a host of features for operational ease and better security, the following are the 
major ones.
(i) Market watch
Market watch is the first page of NDS-OM once the user logs in to the system. The page gives 
security-wise details, current state of the market by giving details like best bid, best offer, last traded 
price and yield and total traded amount on real time basis for each security.
Market watch is separately available for different segments of the market, viz., Central Government 
securities (CG), State Government securities (SG), Treasury bills (TB), Odd lot market (OD) and 
When Issued market (WI).
Treasury Management.indb 296 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
ROLE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FINANCIAL MARKETS297 297
25.2 OTHER TRADING PLATFORMS/SYSTEMS
In these platforms, trading is done electronically through networked computers/workstations. Market 
participants and players are part of a secure WAN, and make bids and offers, be it forex, bonds, or 
equities. The system electronically matches bids and offers. Current examples of electronic trading 
platforms are, those of NSE(NEAT), BSE(BEST, BOLT+On Web), and foreign exchange (through 
the Reuters electronic dealing system).
25.3 STRAIGHT-THROUGH-PROCESSING (STP)
STP is the latest technological wave to hit financial markets. This electronic system enables trading,
documentation, clearing, settlement, and custody on a single, end-to-end hardware and software 
platform.
This is a natural extension of electronic trading, whereby, individual trades, once approved and 
authorised by the buyer and seller, are settled automatically by the system through its connectivity 
with a Clearing House. Buyers receive securities in their custodial accounts, and sellers receive funds.
Settlement
Post-approval of a deal, the system suo moto, credits and debits the respective cash and securities 
accounts of the buyer and seller as required. In G-Secs, the NDS enables this through the 
intermediation of the CCIL. Please see Chapters 5 and 6.
Forex deals in USD/INR and cross-currencies, i.e., USD/JPY, Euro/USD, GBP/USD, etc., are also 
settled electronically through CCIL or SWIFT, through transfers of funds from and to nostro accounts.
Custody
Electronic records of ownership of securities are held by DPs. Such securities do not exist in 
physical form. The SGL depository of the RBI maintains custody and ownership of SLR securities 
in electronic form.
25.3.1 Conversion of Physical Securities to Demat
The RBI and SEBI have now made it mandatory for almost all securities to be in demat, i.e., electronic 
form. A demat account is basically an electronic record of ownership and transactions in securities, 
maintained with a depository participant (DP), which, in turn, maintains an account with the apex 
depository (NSDL, CDSL, etc.)
Similarly, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) has already been introduced by RBI which is a 
completely electronically propelled countrywide payment system.
Besides the above, the application of sophisticated IT tools has made it possible to calculate 
VaR, conduct thousands of scenario analysis through simulation, carry out back testing/stress 
testing, apply statistical tools for complicated analysis in bond dynamics, and exchange rate 
mechanisms.
Chapter 16-26.indd 297 6/21/2018 5:06:00 PM
298 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Let Us Sum Up
This chapter deals with Negotiated Dealing Settlement INFINET and other trading platforms, 
Straight Through Processing, etc., RBI and SEBI have made it mandatory for almost all securities 
to be in demat.
Keywords
NDS, INFINET, STP, Demat
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) an electronic trading platform does not deal in which of 
the following products?
(a) corporate debentures
(b) Government of India dated securities
(c) T bills
(d) Repos
2. At present membership of NDS is open to which of the following entities?
(a) Individuals
(b) Mutual funds
(c) Minors
(d) Differently enabled individuals
3. For what purpose does RBI use the primary auction platform of NDS?
(a) For auction of Government securities only
(b) For auction of T bills only
(c) For auction of dated securities of GOI, State Government securities and T bills
(d) For repurchase of all types of securities from public
4. What are the characteristics of direct participants of NDS(OM)?
(a) They directly deal with counterparties
(b) They directly negotiate the prices
(c) They directly receive securities from RBI
(d) Direct members have current and SGL accounts with RBI
Answers
1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 298 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 299
 REGULATIONS, 
SUPERVISION AND 
COMPLIANCE OF 
TREASURY OPERATIONS
STRUCTURE
26.0 Objective
26.1 Introduction
26.2 Reserve Bank Guidelines
26.3 The Dealing Room
26.4 Dealing Procedures and Principles
Let Us Sum Up
Keywords
Check Your Progress
UNIT
26
Treasury Management.indb 299 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
300 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
26.0 OBJECTIVE
To provide information on regulatory guidelines, treasury set up, dealing room structure, code of 
conduct for conducting off premises dealings, rules for rate scan, rotation of dealers, dealing hours 
regarding confirmations, firm quotations, and reporting deals on NDS.
26.1 INTRODUCTION
Banks perform the role of intermediation in the financial sector. Thus, deposits and other liabilities 
of various maturities, sizes and prices (interest rates) are deployed by the bank in assets of differing 
maturities, sizes, and prices. This role is facilitated by the status and confidence of depositors that 
the banks enjoy as good managers of financial risks, particularly credit risk. It is easy to see that 
in the process of intermediation, there can always be some time lag between the acceptance of 
liabilities and creation of assets that match with the liabilities. It may also happen that banks may 
find attractive avenues for medium/long-term investments, but may not have matching resources, or 
raising funds for the same may take time. Moreover, depositors may suddenly withdraw their deposits 
(prematurely), and borrowers can prepay their loans. Liquidity surplus/deficits of significant order 
can result from the operations of primary dealers, mutual funds, governments (inflows on account 
of payment of coupons/repayment of loans, outflows on account of tax payment, etc.). All these can 
result in banks, at times, carrying surplus funds (surplus in liquidity), and at other times facing funds 
crunch (deficit in liquidity). While there is a need to park the surplus funds as early as possible in 
some short-term, secure, and earning assets before being invested in more stable assets, deficit has 
to be made good by borrowing short term initially, before a more stable resource is tied up. Under 
such conditions, only the surplus fund, which is capable of being transferred easily to a counter party, 
is of consequence. In other words, balances with RBI in excess of the statutory reserves required to 
be maintained by banks, and balances maintained by financial institutions with RBI can represent 
approximately, the liquidity available in the system. Money market is the place where such monies 
and assets, typically short term in nature, are priced and traded.
Money market is a center in which financial institutions congregate for the purpose of dealing 
impersonally in monetary assets. It is a market for short-term money (generally up to 1 year), or 
financial assets that are near substitutes for money, i.e. financial assets, which can be quickly converted 
into money with minimum transaction cost.
Money market provides the interface between the providers and users of liquidity, and acts as 
an equilibrating mechanism for evening out short-term liquidity surpluses and deficits. It has the 
important role of providing a ‘medium’, through which monetary policy signals of the central bank 
(RBI) aimed at managing short-term liquidity in the system are transmitted. Obviously, in order to 
successfully fulfill its role, money market has to be very liquid, where short term instruments are 
traded in high volumes. It is also important that the money market should have systems to ensure 
limitation of counter party risk to protect the participants. RBI is concerned about the functioning 
of money market on sound lines as problems in the money market can escalate into systemic risk, 
and result in huge losses in the absence of proper supervision and risk management.
RBI regulates the money market, and all money market instruments come under its regulatory 
purview. Government of India has delegated powers to RBI under Section 16 of the Securities 
Treasury Management.indb 300 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS301 301
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, for regulating contracts in government securities, money market 
securities, gold related securities and derivatives based on these securities, as also ready forward 
contracts in all debt securities. RBI has already announced its intention to make call money market 
a pure interbank market with banks and primary dealers as members, and made it a pure Inter-Bank 
market, only exception being Primary Dealers. The lending by non-banks in the call money market 
has been phased out.
The money market used to be typically a telephone market. But, with vast improvement of market 
infrastructure and introduction of Negotiated Dealing System, Clearing Corporation of India, and the 
Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS), the payment and settlement infrastructure is reaching 
international standards, thus, facilitating better turnover and price discovery in the money market, 
besides addressing the systemic risk. In the not too distant future, money market will be totally 
screen and systems driven.
For any segment of financial market to develop on healthy lines, it is necessary that in addition to 
the regulation by the Central Bank of the country and other authorities, self-regulation be accorded 
priority. Accordingly, in the Indian Foreign Exchange Market, Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association 
(FEDAI) is the Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) for the foreign exchange segment. Fixed Income 
Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA) is SRO for the money market. FIMMDA 
has taken initiatives to frame a Code of Conduct, and ensure adherence to the code by the market 
participants. It has also developed standard Master Agreements for various types of money market 
transactions to promote their use in the market. Along with an effective SRO, a strong central bank 
to support and supervise the money market, integration with the rest of the markets in the financial 
system, existence of risk management systems, adherence to the various risk control procedure, 
norms for disclosures, and transparency in the balance sheets of banks are some of the prerequisites 
for a sound working of the money market. These prerequisites are almost fully prevalent in the 
Indian Money Market.
Following are the extracts from the guidelines/self-regulations policies from the Reserve Bank of 
India/FIMMDA in respect to dealing with regulations, supervision, compliance, dealing and trading 
operations, control and orderly conduct, moral and ethical codes, etc., on treasury operations.
26.2 RESERVE BANK GUIDELINES
26.2.1 Organizational Set Up
Management of market risk should be the primary concern of the top management of banks. 
The boards should clearly articulate market risk management policies, procedures, prudential 
risk limits, review mechanisms and reporting and auditing systems. The policies should address 
the bank’s exposure on a consolidated basis, and clearly articulate the risk measurement 
systems that capture all material sources of market risk, and assess the effects on the bank. 
The operating prudential limits and the accountability of the line management should also be 
clearly defined. The Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO) should function as the 
top operational unit for managing the balance sheet within the performance/risk parameters 
laid down by the board.
Treasury Management.indb 301 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
302 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The successful implementation of any risk management process depends on the top managements 
and its strong commitment to integrate basic operations and strategic decision making with risk 
management. Ideally, the organizational set up for Market Risk Management should be as under:
(a) The Board of Directors
(b) The Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO)
(c) The ALM Support Groups/Market Risk Groups
(d) The Risk Management Committee
(i) The Board of Directors should have the overall responsibility for management of risks. 
The board should decide the risk management policy of the bank and set limits for 
liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity price risks.
(ii) The Asset-Liability Management Committee, popularly known as ALCO should be 
responsible for ensuring adherence to the limits set by the board, as well as for deciding 
the business strategy of the bank in line with the bank’s budget and predetermined risk 
management objectives. The ALCO is a decision-making unit responsible for balance 
sheet planning from risk-return perspective including strategic management of interest 
rate and liquidity risks. The role of the ALCO should include, inter-alia, the following:
• product pricing for deposits and advances, depending on desired maturity profile and 
mix of incremental assets and liabilities;
• articulating interest rate view of the bank, and deciding on the future business strategy;
• reviewing and articulating funding policy;
• reviewing economic and political impact on the balance sheet
• The ALCO will also be responsible for ensuring the adherence to the limits set by 
the board of directors. The ALCO will also decide the transfer pricing policy of the 
bank. The ALCO will comprise the Managing Director, heads of various divisions, 
and other senior personnel involved with the ALM process.
(iii) The ALM Support Groups consisting of operating staff should be responsible for 
analyzing, monitoring, and reporting the risk profiles to the ALCO.
(iv) The Risk Management Committee should prepare forecasts (simulations) showing the 
effects of various possible changes in market conditions related to the balance sheet, and 
recommend the action needed to adhere to the bank’s internal limits.
26.3 THE DEALING ROOM
The Treasury Dealing Room within a bank is generally the clearing house for matching, managing, 
and controlling market risks. It may provide funding, liquidity and investment support for the assets 
and liabilities generated by regular business of the bank. The Dealing Room is responsible for the 
proper management and control of market risks in accordance with the authority granted to it by the 
bank’s Risk Management Committee.
The Dealing Room is also responsible for meeting the needs of business units in pricing market 
risks for application to its products and services. The Dealing Room acts as the bank’s interface to 
international and domestic financial markets, and generally bears the responsibility for managing 
market risks in accordance with instructions received from the bank’s Risk Management committee.
Treasury Management.indb 302 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS303 303
The Risk Management Committee may also allocate a discretionary limit within which the Dealing 
Room may take market risk on a proprietary basis. In view of this, effective control and supervision of 
the bank’s Dealing Room activities is critical to its effectiveness in managing and controlling market 
risks. Critical to a Dealing Room’s effective functioning is a comprehensive Dealing Room Manual 
covering all aspects of their day to day activities, and ensuring that all dealers have access to it.
All dealers active in day to day trading activities must acknowledge familiarity with, and provide 
an undertaking in writing to adhere to the bank’s dealing guidelines and procedures. The Dealing 
Room Procedures Manual should be comprehensive in nature, covering operating procedures for 
all the bank’s trading activities in which the Dealing Room is involved, and in particular it must 
cover the bank’s requirements in:
• Code of Conduct – All dealers active in the day to day trading activities in the Indian market 
must acknowledge familiarity with, and provide an undertaking to adhere to FEDAI code of 
conduct (and FIMMDA when available).
• Adherence to Internal Limits – All dealers must be aware of, acknowledge, and provide 
an undertaking to adhere to the limits governing their authority, to commit the bank, 
to risk exposures as they apply to their own particular risk responsibilities and level of 
seniority.
• Adherence to RBI Limits and Guidelines – All dealers must acknowledge, and provide an 
undertaking to adhere to their responsibilities to remain within RBI limits and guidelines in 
their area of activity.
• Dealing with Brokers – All dealers should be aware of, acknowledge, and provide an 
undertaking to follow the guidelines governing the bank’s activities with brokers, including 
conducting business only with brokers authorised by the bank’s Risk Management Committee 
(on the bank’s Brokers Panel).
• Ensuring that their activities with brokers do not result in the brokers acting as principals in 
transactions, but remain strictly in their authorised role as market intermediaries.
• Demanding that brokers provide all ‘brokers notes’, and confirmations of transactions before 
close of business each day (or exceptionally by the beginning of the next business day, in 
which case the notes must be prominently marked by the broker as having been transacted on 
the previous day, and the Back-office must recast the previous night’s position against limits 
reports) to the bank’s Back-office for reconciliation with transaction data.
• Ensuring that all brokerage payments and statements are received, reconciled, and paid by 
the bank’s Back-Office department, and under no circumstances authorised or any payment 
released by dealers.
• Prohibiting the dealers acceptance of gifts, gratifications, or other favors from brokers, instances 
of which should be reported in detail to RBI’s Department of Banking Supervision, indicating 
the nature of the case.
• Prohibiting dealers from nominating a broker in transactions not done through that broker.
• Promptly investigate complaints against dealers, and malpractices by brokers, and report them 
to FEDAI and RBI’s Department of Banking Supervision.
• Dealing Hours – All Dealers should be aware of the bank’s normal trading hours, cut-off time 
for overnight positions, and rules governing after hours and off-site trading (if allowed by the 
bank).
Treasury Management.indb 303 6/19/2018 6:24:10 PM
304 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Security and Confidentiality – All dealers should be aware of the bank’s requirements in respect 
to maintaining confidentiality over its own, and its customers’ trading activities, as well as 
the responsibility for secure maintenance of access media, keys, passwords, and PINS.
• Staff Rotation and Leave Requirements – All dealers should be aware of the requirement to 
take at least one period of leave, of not less than 14 days continuously per annum, and of the 
bank’s internal policy with regard to staff rotation.
26.3.1 Extracts from FIMMDA: Handbook of Market Practices
General Principles:
• All Principals and brokers shall maintain the highest standards of conduct so as to enhance 
the reputation of these markets.
• All participants must ensure that any individual who commits on behalf of the institution is 
acting within approved authorities.
• All institutions must stand by the commitment made by an individual acting on their behalf, 
the principle being, ‘My Word is my Bond’.
• Institutions must ensure that the individuals acting on their behalf, are fully trained, and 
completely aware of the rules and regulations, conventions, practices, and the markets with 
which they deal.
• All individuals must comply with the rules and regulations governing the market, and keep 
themselves updated with the changes that happen from time to time.
• The role of a broker is to bring together the counterparties for a fee. When brokers act as 
intermediaries, they are not expected to act as principals or in a discretionary capacity, even 
momentarily. Where the broking company is acting on its own account, it is expected to 
declare that it is dealing as a principal before negotiating the trade.
• Brokers and principals are expected to maintain confidentiality of the parties involved in the 
transactions.
• Settlement of the deals in Fixed Income, Money Market, and Rupee Derivatives will be 
subjected to market conventions laid down by FIMMDA, irrespective of the counterparty 
being a member of FIMMDA, or not.
26.3.2 Management Controls
The management should put in place appropriate controls, and procedures in respect of their dealing 
in the markets, covered by the handbook. It should be ensured that the staff members who deal with 
the market and the other support staff, follow the controls and procedures so laid down.
The management should periodically review the controls and procedures.
26.3.3 Organization of the Dealing Department
The fundamental principle of maintenance of internal controls is the functional segregation of the 
front-office and back-office and settlement functions. However, in view of the increasing volume and 
Treasury Management.indb 304 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS305 305
complexity of the transactions, it may be a good practice to segregate the functions of the dealing 
department as under:
Table 26.1: Role of various offices in the treasury
Front Office Dealing
Mid-office Risk Management, Accounting and Management Information
Back Office Confirmations, Settlement and Reconciliation 
Since there may be an overlap of the mid-office and back-office functions, the managements may 
lay down any other level of segregation that it thinks fit. (Back-office and mid-office have been used 
interchangeably in this handbook).
Personnel in back-office functions and mid-office functions should be functionally segregated from 
those in the front office. Persons who conclude trades must not be involved in the confirmation or 
settlement of trades.
26.3.4 Know Your Counter Party
It is a good practice to conduct basic due diligence and, ‘know your counter party’ checks before 
dealing. These checks should show a basic understanding of who the counter party is, and why the 
counter party is dealing with the product. For derivatives transactions, firms should, in spirit of ‘duty 
of care’ be satisfied that the company is aware of the risks involved in using those products, and that 
the person is authorised by the company for executing those transactions.
26.3.5 Recording of Conversations
Experience has shown that recourse to tapes proves invaluable to the speedy resolution of differences 
and disputes. Members who do not tape all their Front Office conversations should review this 
matter, and introduce the system as soon as possible. When initially installing recording equipment, 
or taking on new clients or counter parties, firms should inform the dealing counter party that the 
conversations will be recorded. Communication devices like mobile phones, not connected to the 
voice recorder should not be allowed to be used for trading purposes. Banks should have mobile 
phone usage policies in line with RBI guidelines.
Tapes should be kept at least for 3 months. Tapes related to disputed/unconfirmed transactions should 
be retained until the disputes have been settled/confirmed.
Management should ensure that access to the recording equipment, whether in use or in store, is 
strictly controlled so that they cannot be tampered with.
26.3.6 Off-Premises Dealing
As a practice, participants should deal only from their normal place of dealing, i.e., from their 
respective dealing rooms/office as the case may be.
Treasury Management.indb 305 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
306 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
However, there may be occasions when the dealer may have to deal from places other than their normal 
place of dealing. Management may lay down the guidelines, including specifying the staff that are 
authorised to deal from outside the normal place of dealing. The back-office should inform the management 
about such off-premises deals. Management should satisfy themselves of the needs for such dealing.
The dealer/official should, prior to dealing, inform the counter party about dealing off-premises. The 
fact that the deal has been done off the premises should also be recorded in the deal confirmation 
and/or other relevant records.
26.3.7 Dealing Hours
Dealing hours for Fixed Income Securities are as follows:
(a) Dealing hours for Government Securities (outright and derivatives): 9.00 AM to 5.00
PM (NDS also has the same timings for trading sessions).
(b) Dealing hours for Corporate Bonds / CP / CD (T+0) : 9.00 AM to 2.30 PM
(c) Dealing hours for Corporate Bonds / CP / CD (T+1) : 9.00 AM to 5.00 PM
Market Repo Transactions:
(d) Government Securities Repo (T+0) : 9.00 AM to 2.30 PM
(e) Government Securities Repo (T+1) : 9.00 AM to 5.00 PM
(f) Corporate Bonds Repo (T+0) : 9.00 AM to 2.30 PM
(g) Corporate Bonds Repo (T+1) : 9.00 AM to 5.00 PM
OTC deals done outside these hours should be reported to the management and management should 
satisfy themselves about the necessity of concluding such deals outside the prescribed hours.
26.3.8 Rate Scan
Market players shall not deal at the rates which are not market related. Management should ensure 
that proper procedures, including the periodicity of taking rate scans, are in place to ensure this. 
Management should set up the ‘rate-bands’ within which the actual traded rates should fall.
A proper procedure to monitor the deals, which are outside the rate-bands should be laid down. 
Usually this would be, because of extraordinary volatility, or because the amount of the deal is small 
and transactional costs have been loaded into the price.
The back-office should report these exceptions to the management, and the management must satisfy 
itself that the exceptions are for legitimate and comprehensible reasons.
26.3.9 Conflicts of Interest
It is possible that the dealers may wish to make personal investments in the products, which the 
institution is dealing with, or in the products covered by this handbook. Management should formulate 
a ‘Personal Investment Policy’ and ensure adherence to the same.
Treasury Management.indb 306 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS307 307
While framing the Personal Investment Policy, the management may take into consideration the 
rules and regulations laid down by any statutory authority in respect to insider trading.
26.3.10 Rotation of Dealers
Dealers should not be kept for long on the same desk. Banks shall have a mandatory leave and 
surprise leave policy, as well as a dealer rotation policy, in line with RBI guidelines. An annual 
compulsory leave of two calendar weeks in a single spell every year for the dealers as stipulated 
in internal control guidelines as minimum mandatory leave be followed. Surprise away from desk 
requirement is left to the choice of the individual banks.
26.3.11 Confirmations
Firms should ensure that they have a process in place, which at the minimum ensures the following:
Deals recorded by the trader are confirmed independently by the back-office. All confirmations should 
include the date of the deal, the name of the counter party, and all other details of the deal. It is a good 
practice to also confirm all settlement details, even when some of these details do not change with each 
and every deal. The back-office must respond promptly to confirmations received for which they do not 
have a corresponding trade. It is proper to first check with the front office to ensure that no deal has been 
missed. They should then promptly advise the back-office of the counter party, of the absence of the trade.
Any discrepancy between a confirmation and significant details of the trade, or even the existence of a 
trade, should be brought to the attention of the management. Ageing discrepancies beyond T+2 should 
be escalated/placed to the Management Committee.Management should satisfy them- selves about the 
genuineness and accuracy of the trade. It is important that discrepancies should be promptly sorted out.
Physical exchange of confirmation of CD/CP deals and other deals which are reported to and matched 
by CCIL/CLS is not necessary provided there exists a bilateral/multilateral agreement to this effect 
with the counterparty.
26.4 DEALING PROCEDURES AND PRINCIPLES
Scope
Deals done in the Indian market should be conducted on the basis of guidelines contained in the 
FIMMDA handbook.
In respect of deals done with overseas counter parties, the counter party should be made aware of 
the conventions, followed in India, in advance, to avoid any possible confusion.
26.4.1 Preliminary Negotiation of Terms
Dealers should clearly state at the outset, prior to a transaction being executed, any qualifying 
conditions to which the deal will be subject to. Where a firm quote has been indicated on the NDS, 
qualifying conditions cannot be specified after the conclusion of the deal.
Treasury Management.indb 307 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
308 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Typical examples of qualifications include: where a price is quoted subject to the necessary credit 
approval, limits available for the counter party, inability to conclude a transaction because offices of 
the member in other centres are not open. This should be made known to the broker and the potential 
counter party at an early stage, and before names are exchanged by the broker.
26.4.2 Firmness of Quotation
Dealers, whether acting as principals, agent or broker, have a duty to make absolutely clear whether 
the prices they are quoting are firm or merely indicative. Prices quoted by brokers should be taken 
as indicative, unless otherwise qualified.
In respect of deals on the NDS-CALL, the dealer would put the quote as a “firm” quote or “indicative” 
quote on the NDS-CALL. In case the dealer is willing to do the deal only with a certain set of 
counterparties, he should put the quote as “firm” only for preferred counterparties. 
In respect of other deals, a dealer quoting a firm price or rate either through a broker, or directly 
to a potential counter party, is committed to deal at that price or rate in a marketable amount, 
provided, the counter party name is acceptable. Generally, prices are assumed to be firm as long 
as the counterparty or the broker is on line. Members should clearly and immediately indicate 
when the prices are withdrawn.
In volatile markets, or when some news is expected, dealers quoting a firm price or rate should 
indicate the length of time for which their quote is firm. The price or the rate is usually for the 
marketable amount. If the quote is not for a marketable quantity, the dealer/broker should qualify 
the same while submitting the quote.
A significant part of the transaction by brokers relies on mandates given by dealers acting on behalf 
of principals. The risk that the principal runs is that such an offer could get hit after an adverse 
market move has taken place.
The broker is expected to use the mandate in order to ‘advertise’ the principal’s interest to the entities 
that the broker expects will have an interest in the price. Generally, the broker is free to show the 
price to the entities he deems fit, but members have the right to expect that if a smaller set is defined, 
the broker will adhere to such a smaller set.
Mandates shall not be for a period of more than 15 minutes, unless otherwise specified. Brokers 
are expected to check with the principal from time to time to ensure that the mandate is still 
current.
The broker shall reveal the name of the entity offering the mandate, when the counter party is firm 
to deal at the mandated price. The broker will then call the member who offered the mandate and 
confirm the deal. In case the price is not adhered to, it is the responsibility of the member who had 
offered the mandate to explain why the mandate is no longer valid. It is required of the member 
that the mandate price be withdrawn before the broker reveals the counter party name. The only 
exception to this is when the counter party name is not acceptable.
The principal should call the broker if he wishes to withdraw the mandate before its expiry. The 
quote cannot be withdrawn after the broker has concluded the deal.
Treasury Management.indb 308 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS309 309
26.4.3 Delivery of the Securities/Funds
The dealers should agree upon the delivery conditions before concluding the deal.
Delivery of the securities/funds is on a Delivery-versus-Payment (DVP) basis in respect of 
Government Securities, T-Bills, CP, CD and Corporate Bond. In respect of other securities, which 
are in demat form, since there is no DVP mechanism, the dealers should agree upon the priority of 
settlement of the securities and funds.
Banks and primary dealers are currently not allowed to invest in securities, which are not in demat 
form. In the event where physical securities are to be delivered, the dealers should agree before 
conclusion of the deal as to whether the settlement will be DVP or otherwise (in which case the 
priority of settlement needs to be agreed upon).
What is Delivery versus Payment (DvP) Settlement?
Delivery versus Payment (DvP) is the mode of settlement of securities wherein the transfer of 
securities and funds happen simultaneously. This ensures that unless the funds are paid, the securities 
are not delivered and vice versa. DvP settlement eliminates the settlement risk in transactions. There 
are three types of DvP settlements, viz., DvP I, II and III which are explained below:
(i) DvP I – The securities and funds legs of the transactions are settled on a gross basis, that is, 
the settlements occur transaction by transaction without netting the payables and receivables 
of the participant.
(ii) DvP II – In this method, the securities are settled on gross basis whereas the funds are settled 
on a net basis, that is, the funds payable and receivable of all transactions of a party are netted 
to arrive at the final payable or receivable position which is settled.
(iii) DvP III – In this method, both the securities and the funds legs are settled on a net basis 
and only the final net position of all transactions undertaken by a participant is settled.
Liquidity requirement in a gross mode is higher than that of a net mode since the payables and 
receivables are set off against each other in the net mode.
26.4.4 Concluding a Deal
Dealers should regard themselves as bound to honor a deal once the price, name acceptability, credit 
approval, and any other key commercial terms have been agreed. Oral agreements/contracts are 
considered binding on all the parties concerned.
Where quoted prices are qualified as being indicative or subject to negotiation of commercial terms, 
members should normally treat themselves as bound to honor the deal at the point when the terms 
have been agreed without qualification.
Oral agreements are considered binding; the subsequent confirmation is evidence of the deal but 
should not override terms agreed to orally.
Making a transaction subject to documentation is not a good practice. In order to minimise the 
likelihood of disputes arising once the documentation is prepared, dealers should make every 
Treasury Management.indb 309 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
310 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
effort to clarify all material points quickly during the oral negotiation of terms, and should 
include these in the confirmation. Where brokers are involved, members have the right to expect 
that the broker will make them aware immediately on conclusion of the deal. As a general rule, 
a deal should be regarded as having been ‘done’ where the dealer positively acknowledges the 
broker’s confirmation. It is expected that a broker shall not assume that a deal is done without 
oral confirmation from the dealer.
26.4.5 Passing of Names by Brokers
It is a good practice for dealers not to seek the names of the counter party before transacting, and 
for brokers not to divulge the names before concluding the deal. Dealers and brokers should at all 
times treat the details of transactions as absolutely confidential between the parties involved.
To save time and avoid confusion, dealers should, wherever practical, give brokers prior indication 
of counterparties with whom, for whatsoever reason, they would be unwilling to do business. In 
all their transactions, brokers should aim to achieve a mutual and immediate exchange of names.
In the repo markets, it is accepted that members may vary the price (Repo Rate) depending on the 
counter party. Hence, it is acceptable for the member to know the name of the counter party in advance.
In the case of instruments like Certificate of Deposits and Commercial Papers, where the seller may 
not be the same entity as the issuer, the broker shall first disclose the issuer’s name to the potential 
buyer. The name of the buyer shall be disclosed only after the buyer has accepted the seller’s name. 
The seller has the right to refuse to transact with the buyer.
26.4.6 Reporting of Deals on the NDS
All deals in Government securities will be settled on T+1 basis. However, if FPI is one of the 
counterparties, the deals will be settled on T+2 basis. These will include deals between a domestic 
entity and an FPI, deals between two FPIs of different custodians, deals between a custodian and its 
FPI Gilt Account Holder, and deals between two FPI Gilt account Holders of the same custodian.
The deals concluded outside the NDS-OM, should be reported on the NDS_OM reporting segment 
within the time frame stipulated by the regulator concerned( presently 15 minutes) from the time 
of the conclusion of the deal. Custodian bank of the FPI selling the security or the counterparty 
entity selling the security to the FPI will also have to report the deal on trade date itself within the 
prescribed reporting time. However, Custodian bank of the FPI buying the security can report the 
deal till next business day upto prescribed reporting time.
Deals in Government Securities and T-Bills may be concluded either on the NDS or otherwise. 
However, all the deals in Government Securities and T-Bills concluded outside the NDS-OM system 
have to be reported on the NDS_OM Reporting Segment by the seller as well as buyer independently. 
The settlement of outright trades and repo trades shall be through CCIL as per its Bye-Laws, Rules 
and Regulations.
Treasury Management.indb 310 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS311 311
26.4.7 Oral Confirmations
In respect of deals done on voice / OTC platform an oral confirmation of the deals by the back office 
is a good practice. Lack of response should not be construed as confirmation.
26.4.8 Written Confirmations
Exchange of written deal confirmation is not needed for the following deals:
(a) Deals done in G-secs on NDS-OM platform
(b) Deals done in G-secs on voice/OTC platform and reported on NDS-Reported deals segment.
(c) Deals done in Call Money/Notice Money/Term Money on NDS Call Money platform.
(d) Deals done in G-sec Repo/Reverse Repo on NDS-CROMS platform.
(e) Deals done in IRS/OIS on CCIL‟s IRS/OIS trading platform.
(f) Deals done in CP/CD/Repo in Corporate Bond on voice/OTC platform and reported on F-Trac, 
provided the counterparties have executed a bilateral /multilateral agreement as permitted by 
their respective regulators.
In respect of all other deals, a written confirmation of each deal must be sent out at the earliest and 
a confirmation should be received from the counterparty.
The confirmation provides a necessary final safeguard against dealing errors. Confirmations should 
be despatched and checked promptly, even when oral deal confirmations have been undertaken.
A confirmation of each deal must be sent out at the earliest. This is particularly essential if dealing is 
for same day settlement. All participants of the wholesale markets should have in place the capability 
to despatch confirmations so that they are received and can be checked within a few hours from 
the time of striking the deal. Where the products involved are more complex, and so require more 
details to be included on the confirmation, this may not be possible; nevertheless it is in the interest 
of all concerned that such deals are confirmed as quickly as possible and in no case later than the 
next working day of the date of the deal. It is recommended that principals should inquire about 
confirmations not received within the expected time.
All confirmations should include the trade date, value date, the name of the counter party, and all 
other details of the deal, including, wherever appropriate, the commission charged by the broker. 
All confirmations should state: ‘The settlement of the deals in Fixed Income, Money Market and 
Rupee Derivatives is subject to FIMMDA’s market conventions, irrespective of the counter party 
being a member of FIMMDA’.
It is an accepted practice for principals to confirm directly all the details of transactions arranged 
through a broker, who independently sends a contract/transaction confirmation to both counter 
parties.
It is vital that principals, upon receipt of confirmations, immediately check the confirmations carefully 
so that discrepancies are quickly revealed and corrected. As a general rule, the confirmations should 
not be issued by or sent to and checked by dealers. Confirmation is a back-office function.
Treasury Management.indb 311 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
312 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
26.4.9 Settlement of Differences
If all the procedures outlined above are adhered to, the incidence and size of differences would be 
reduced. Errors may occur, and they should be identified and corrected promptly. Failure to observe 
these principles could leave those responsible bearing the cost of any differences, which arise.
Where difference in payment arises because of errors in the payment of funds, firms should not 
attempt undue enrichment by retaining the funds. In case funds are retained, then compensation 
terms should be negotiated between the counter parties. The same principle is applicable in case of 
delivery of securities.
26.4.8 Rounding off
All interest receivable/payable should be rounded off to the higher rupee if the paise component is 
equal to or higher than 50 paise, and should be ignored if the paise component is less than 50 paise. 
The rounding off to paise should also be done in respect of broken period interest receivable/payable.
26.4.9 Bank Holidays/Market Disruption
The list of holidays will be displayed by FIMMDA on its website. Holidays are declared by the State 
Governments on calendar year basis. If the maturity of a Security falls on a Sunday or a Mumbai 
bank holiday, the market participants will follow the guidelines adopted for government securities i.e 
the redemption proceeds (Redemption value and the coupon) will be paid on the previous Mumbai 
working day without any reduction in the amount. If the coupon payment date of a security falls on 
a Sunday or a Mumbai bank holiday, the coupon payment shall be made on the next working day 
without any increase in the amount.
If due to unforeseen events, a particular date for which transactions have been entered into, is 
subsequently declared as a holiday, then while settling such claims, the principle of no undue 
enrichment should be followed. The practice to be followed, in case of declaration of an unscheduled 
holiday, is given in Chapter 9 of the FIMMDA Handbook of Market Practices.
Bank Annual Account Closing Day (i.e.1st April) – will be treated as a normal holiday.
Let Us Sum Up
Management of market risk should be the primary concern of the top management of the banks. The 
ALCO is a decision making unit responsible for balance sheet planning from risk-return perspective 
including strategic management of interest rate and liquidity risks. Dealers must sign and observe 
the FEDAI code of conduct. The market practices as laid down by FIMMDA need to be adhered by 
all market participants. The organisation of Treasury in terms of Dealing room, Mid office, and Back 
office has been discussed. Issues relating to ‘Know your counter party’, recording of conversations, 
off-premises dealing, dealing hours, conflicts of interest, rotation of dealers, and confirmations have 
been discussed in detail.
Treasury Management.indb 312 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
REGULATIONS, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL MARKETS313 313
Keywords
ALCO, Risk management committee, code of conduct, FIMMDA, Front office, Mid office, Back 
office, Rate scan, DVP, NDS, and market disruption.
Check Your Progress
Choose the appropriate answers for the following questions from the options given below.
1. What is the important role of ALCO?
(a) product pricing for deposits and advances
(b) strategizing for achieving year end targets
(c) Motivating staff
(d) liaising with RBI
2. The main functions of Mid office include
(a) Risk management and monitoring
(b) Business development
(c) Staff management
(d) Administration
3. How are the prices quoted by brokers to be treated?
(a) As indicative always
(b) As final always
(c) To be taken as indicative unless otherwise qualified
(d) Only to be taken as final after receipt of confirmation from the counterparty
4. What is the essential feature of DvP III?
(a) Securities and funds legs of the transaction are settled on gross basis
(b) Securities are settled on gross basis, funds are settled on net basis
(c) Funds are settled on gross, securities are settled on net basis
(d) Both the securities and funds legs are settled on net basis
Answers
1. (a) 2. (a) 3. (c) 4. (d)
Treasury Management.indb 313 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
Treasury Management.indb 314 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
APPENDICES
Units
Appendix A — Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy
Appendix B — Examples/Problems
Appendix C — Indian Securities Markets
Appendix D — Basics of Debt Markets
Appendix E — Important Excel Functions
Appendix F — Undertakings of FEDAI
Appendix G — Glossary of Debt Market Terms
Treasury Management.indb 315 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
Treasury Management.indb 316 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
PRUDENTIAL 
NORMS ON CAPITAL 
ADEQUACY
BASEL ACCORDS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Basel Accords have in their core, the concept of capital adequacy for financial institutions like 
banks. Capital Adequacy, as the term literally implies, is about having adequate capital. Capital 
adequacy is a common measure of the strength of a financial institution, such as a bank. Measure 
of the financial strength of a bank or securities firm, is usually expressed as a ratio of its capital to 
its assets. To put it quantitatively, the ratio of the capital of a firm to its assets is its capital adequacy 
ratio. Higher the capital adequacy, the stronger the firm. The higher the capital adequacy, the less 
leveraged the firm.
A bank should always have enough capital so that, if some of the risks the bank has taken are 
realized, the bank can remain in business without jeopardizing its depositors. The minimum 
level of capital recommended by Basel I and subsequently adopted by regulators was 8%. In 
India, Banks are required to maintain minimum 9% of this ratio, which is called as ‘CRAR’ 
(Capital Risk Adjusted Ratio). Banks therefore maintain the following risk asset ratio at or 
above that level:
• Own funds (i.e., available capital and reserves)
• Risk-weighted assets (i.e., the amount of money the bank has put at risk in the course of its 
business)
The capital adequacy ratio of a bank’s capital its total assets required by regulators to be above a 
minimum (“adequate”) level so that there is little risk of the bank going bust. How high this minimum 
level is may vary according to how risky a bank’s activities are. The formula for arriving at CRAR 
is given below:
CRAR = Capital/Total Risk Weighted Assets.
In calculating this ratio both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet items are considered.
Appendix
A
Treasury Management.indb 317 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
318 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Comparison between the Basel Guidelines:
Basel I Basel II Basel III
A.  B a s e l C o m m i t t e e o n 
Banking Supervision 
(BCBS) had come out with 
these guidelines in the year 
July, 1988 as a solution to 
mitigate the Herstatt Risk 
that took place in the year 
1974 due to collapse of the 
German Bank.
B.  By definition, recognized 
only the Credit risk as the 
potential risk for the failure 
of the Banks.
C.  Subsequently, BCBS came 
out with Market Risk paper 
in the year 1996 a set of rules 
to strengthen the treasury 
operations of the banks. 
This was necessitated out 
of Nick Leeson Fraud, due 
to which the world saw the 
collapse of Barings Bank 
Ltd.
A.  BCBS came out with these 
guidelines in the year 
June 2004 to overcome 
t h e i n a d e q u a t e r i s k 
measurement approach of 
Basel I arising out of the 
changed banking scenario 
more due to technology 
adoption.
B.  Besides, credit & market 
risks, recognized operational 
risk as an additional risk.
C.  The Credit risk of Basel I 
was completely revamped 
and Basel II adopted 
provided a flexible menu 
of risk-based approaches 
to Credit & Operation 
risk measurement. It also 
introduced risk mitigation 
techniques as Basel I did not 
recognize the role of credit 
risk mitigants, such as credit 
derivatives, securitizations, 
collaterals and guarantees, 
netting in reducing the credit 
risk. It also emphasized on 
bank’s internal methods, 
supervisory review and 
market discipline.
A.  BCBS came out with this 
Consultative Paper on 13th 
September, 2010 as a fall 
out of Sub-Prime Crisis of 
US, which later on became 
a contagion effect and 
resulted into a global crisis.
B.  As stated above, Basel III calls 
only for additional capital 
for the Banks to help raise 
the resilience of individual 
banking institutions to 
periods of stress, and address 
to system wide risks that can 
build up across the banking 
sector as well as the procyclical amplification of these 
risks over time.
C.  T h e e n h a n c e d B a s e l 
framework revised and 
strengthen the three pillars 
established by Basel II.
D.  It extended the framework 
with several innovations 
like
(a) Capital conservation 
buffer
(b) Countercyclical capital 
buffer
(c) A leverage ratio
(d) Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio
(e) Net Stable Funding 
Ratio
(f) Additional proposals 
f o r s y s t e m i c a l l y 
important banks
Treasury Management.indb 318 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 319 319
IMPLEMENTATION OF BASEL III REGULATIONS IN INDIA
The Basel III capital regulations are being implemented in India with effect from April 1, 2013. 
Banks have to comply with the regulatory limits and minima as prescribed under Basel III capital 
regulations, on an ongoing basis. To ensure smooth transition to Basel III, appropriate transitional 
arrangements have been provided for meeting the minimum Basel III capital ratios, full regulatory 
adjustments to the components of capital etc. Consequently, Basel III capital regulations would be 
fully implemented as on March 31, 2019.
Extracts from RBI Guidelines on Capital adequacy (Original Para Nos as in the RBI guidelines 
retained):
A. Master Circular on Basel III Capital Regulations dated 1st July, 2015:
Guidelines on Minimum Capital Requirement
4. COMPOSITION OF REGULATORY CAPITAL
4.1 General
Banks are required to maintain a minimum Pillar 1 Capital to Risk-weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) 
of 9% on an on-going basis (other than capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer 
etc.). The Reserve Bank will take into account the relevant risk factors and the internal capital 
adequacy assessments of each bank to ensure that the capital held by a bank is commensurate with 
the bank’s overall risk profile. This would include, among others, the effectiveness of the bank’s 
risk management systems in identifying, assessing/measuring, monitoring and managing various 
risks including interest rate risk in the banking book, liquidity risk, concentration risk and residual 
risk. Accordingly, the Reserve Bank will consider prescribing a higher level of minimum capital 
ratio for each bank under the Pillar 2 framework on the basis of their respective risk profiles and 
their risk management systems. Further, in terms of the Pillar 2 requirements, banks are expected 
to operate at a level well above the minimum requirement. A bank should compute Basel III capital 
ratios in the following manner:
Common Equity Tier 1 
capital ratio = Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Credit Risk RWA* + Market Risk RWA + Operational Risk RWA
Tier 1 capital ratio = Eligible Tier 1 Capital
Credit Risk RWA* + Market Risk RWA + Operational Risk RWA
Total Capital (CRAR#) = Eligible Total Capital
Credit Risk RWA + Market Risk RWA + Operational Risk RWA
* RWA = Risk weighted Assets;
# Capital to Risk Weighted Asset Ratio
Treasury Management.indb 319 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
320 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
4.2 Elements of Regulatory Capital and the Criteria for their Inclusion 
in the Definition of Regulatory Capital
4.2.1 Components of Capital
Total regulatory capital will consist of the sum of the following categories:
(i) Tier 1 Capital (going-concern capital)
(a) Common Equity Tier 1
(b) Additional Tier 1
(ii) Tier 2 Capital (gone-concern capital)
4.2.2 Limits and Minima
(i) As a matter of prudence, it has been decided that scheduled commercial banks (excluding 
LABs and RRBs) operating in India shall maintain a minimum total capital (MTC) of 9% of 
total risk weighted assets (RWAs), i.e., capital to risk weighted assets (CRAR). This will be 
further divided into different components as described under paragraphs 4.2.2(ii) to 4.2.2(viii).
(ii) Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital must be at least 5.5% of risk-weighted assets (RWAs), 
i.e., for credit risk + market risk + operational risk on an ongoing basis.
(iii) Tier 1 capital must be at least 7% of RWAs on an ongoing basis. Thus, within the minimum 
Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital can be admitted maximum at 1.5% of RWAs.
(iv) Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital plus Tier 2 Capital) must be at least 9% of RWAs on an ongoing basis. 
Thus, within the minimum CRAR of 9%, Tier 2 capital can be admitted maximum up to 2%.
(v) If a bank has complied with the minimum Common Equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 capital ratios, 
then the excess Additional Tier 1 capital can be admitted for compliance with the minimum 
CRAR of 9% of RWAs.
(vi) In addition to the minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital of 5.5% of RWAs, banks are also 
required to maintain a capital conservation buffer (CCB) of 2.5% of RWAs in the form of 
Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Details of operational aspects of CCB have been furnished 
in paragraph 15. Thus, with full implementation of capital ratios5 and CCB the capital 
requirements are summarised as follows:
Regulatory Capital As % to RWAs
(i) Minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 5.5
(ii) Capital Conservation Buffer (comprised of Common Equity) 2.5
(iii) Minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio plus Capital Conservation 
Buffer [(i)+(ii)]
8.0
(iv) Additional Tier 1 Capital 1.5
(v) Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio [(i)+(iv)] 7.0
(vi) Tier 2 Capital 2.0
(vii) Minimum Total Capital Ratio (MTC) [(v)+(vi)] 9.0
(viii) Minimum Total Capital Ratio plus Capital Conservation Buffer 
[(vii)+(ii)]
11.5
Treasury Management.indb 320 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 321 321
(vii) For the purpose of all prudential exposure limits linked to capital funds, the ‘capital funds’
will be defined as the sum of all eligible Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 
capital and Tier 2 capital, net of regulatory adjustments and deductions.
4.2.3 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
4.2.3.1 Common Equity – Indian Banks
A. Elements of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Elements of Common Equity component of Tier 1 capital will comprise the following:
(i) Common shares (paid-up equity capital) issued by the bank which meet the criteria for 
classification as common shares for regulatory purposes
(ii) Stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of common shares;
(iii) Statutory reserves;
(iv) Capital reserves representing surplus arising out of sale proceeds of assets;
(v) Other disclosed free reserves, if any;
(vi) Balance in Profit & Loss Account at the end of the previous financial year;
(vii) Banks may reckon the profits in current financial year for CRAR calculation on a quarterly 
basis provided the incremental provisions made for non-performing assets at the end of any 
of the four quarters of the previous financial year have not deviated more than 25% from the 
average of the four quarters. The amount which can be reckoned would be arrived at by using 
the following formula:
EPt
= {NPt
 – 0.25*D*t}
Where;
EPt
 = Eligible profit up to the quarter ‘t’ of the current financial year; t varies from 1 to 4
NPt
 = Net profit up to the quarter ‘t’
D = average annual dividend paid during last three years
(viii) Revaluation Reserves at a discount of 55% subject to meeting the prescribed conditions.
(ix) Foreign currency translation reserve at a discount of 25% subject to meeting the prescribed 
conditions
(x) While calculating capital adequacy at the consolidated level, common shares issued by 
consolidated subsidiaries of the bank and held by third parties (i.e., minority interest) which 
meet the laid down criteria; and
(xi) Less: Regulatory adjustments/deductions applied in the calculation of Common Equity 
Tier 1 capital including specified Deferred Tax assets [i.e., to be deducted from the sum of 
items (i) to (x)].
B. Criteria for Classification as Common Shares for Regulatory Purposes
Common Equity is recognised as the highest quality component of capital and is the primary form 
of funding which ensures that a bank remains solvent. Therefore, under Basel III, common shares 
to be included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital must meet the criteria as furnished in Annex 1.
Treasury Management.indb 321 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
322 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
4.2.3.2 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital – Foreign Banks’ Branches
A. Elements of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Elements of Common Equity Tier 1 capital will remain the same and consist of the following:
(i) Interest-free funds from Head Office kept in a separate account in Indian books specifically 
for the purpose of meeting the capital adequacy norms;
(ii) Statutory reserves kept in Indian books;
(iii) Remittable surplus retained in Indian books which is not repatriable so long as the bank 
functions in India;
(iv) Interest-free funds remitted from abroad for the purpose of acquisition of property and held 
in a separate account in Indian books provided they are non-repatriable and have the ability 
to absorb losses regardless of their source;
(v) Capital reserve representing surplus arising out of sale of assets in India held in a separate 
account and which is not eligible for repatriation so long as the bank functions in India; and
(vi) Less: Regulatory adjustments/deductions applied in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 
1 capital [i.e., to be deducted from the sum of items (i) to (v)].
B. Criteria for Classification as Common Equity for Regulatory Purposes
The instruments to be included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital must meet the criteria furnished 
in Annex 2.
The Reserve Bank has also prescribed additional compliance requirements for foreign banks.
4.2.4 Additional Tier 1 Capital
4.2.4.1 Additional Tier 1 Capital – Indian Banks
A. Elements of Additional Tier 1 Capital
Indian Banks
Additional Tier 1 capital will consist of the sum of the following elements:
(i) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS), which comply with the regulatory 
requirements;
(ii) Stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of instruments included in Additional 
Tier 1 capital;
(iii) Debt capital instruments (Perpetual Debt Instruments – PDI) eligible for inclusion in Additional 
Tier 1 capital, which comply with the regulatory requirements;
(iv) Any other type of instrument generally notified by the Reserve Bank from time to time for 
inclusion in Additional Tier 1 capital;
(v) While calculating capital adequacy at the consolidated level, Additional Tier 1 instruments 
issued by consolidated subsidiaries of the bank and held by third parties which meet the 
criteria for inclusion in Additional Tier 1 capital; and
Treasury Management.indb 322 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 323 323
(vi) Less: Regulatory adjustments/deductions applied in the calculation of Additional Tier 1 capital 
[i.e., to be deducted from the sum of items (i) to (v)].
B. Criteria for Classification as Additional Tier 1 Capital for Regulatory Purposes
(i) Under Basel III, the criteria for instruments to be included in Additional Tier 1 capital have 
been modified to improve their loss absorbency as indicated in Annex 3, 4 and 16. Criteria 
for inclusion of Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS) in Additional Tier 1 
Capital are furnished in Annex 3. Criteria for inclusion of Perpetual Debt Instruments (PDI) 
in Additional Tier 1 Capital are furnished in Annex 4. Annex 16 contains criteria for loss 
absorption through conversion/write-down/write-off of Additional Tier 1 instruments on breach 
of the pre-specified trigger and of all non-common equity regulatory capital instruments at 
the point of non-viability.
4.2.4.2 Elements and Criteria for Additional Tier 1 Capital – Foreign 
Banks’ Branches
Various elements and their criteria for inclusion in the Additional Tier 1 capital are as follows:
(i) Head Office borrowings in foreign currency by foreign banks operating in India for inclusion 
in Additional Tier 1 capital which comply with the regulatory requirements;
(ii) Any other item specifically allowed by the Reserve Bank from time to time for inclusion in 
Additional Tier 1 capital; and
(iii) Less: Regulatory adjustments/deductions applied in the calculation of Additional Tier 1 capital 
[i.e. to be deducted from the sum of items (i) to (ii)].
B. Elements of Tier 2 Capital
Under Basel III, there will be a single set of criteria governing all Tier 2 debt capital instruments.
4.2.5.1 Tier 2 Capital – Indian Banks
A. Elements of Tier 2 Capital
(i) General Provisions and Loss Reserves
(a) Provisions or loan-loss reserves held against future, presently unidentified losses, which are 
freely available to meet losses which subsequently materialize, will qualify for inclusion 
within Tier 2 capital. Accordingly, General Provisions on Standard Assets, Floating 
Provisions, incremental provisions in respect of unhedged foreign currency exposures, 
Provisions held for Country Exposures, Investment Reserve Account, excess provisions 
which arise on account of sale of NPAs and ‘countercyclical provisioning buffer will 
qualify for inclusion in Tier 2 capital. However, these items together will be admitted as 
Tier 2 capital up to a maximum of 1.25% of the total credit risk-weighted assets under 
the standardized approach. Under Internal Ratings Based (IRB) approach, where the 
Treasury Management.indb 323 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
324 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
total expected loss amount is less than total eligible provisions, banks may recognise 
the difference as Tier 2 capital up to a maximum of 0.6% of credit-risk weighted assets 
calculated under the IRB approach.
(b) Provisions ascribed to identified deterioration of particular assets or loan liabilities, 
whether individual or grouped should be excluded. Accordingly, for instance, specific 
provisions on NPAs, both at individual account or at portfolio level, provisions in lieu 
of diminution in the fair value of assets in the case of restructured advances, provisions 
against depreciation in the value of investments will be excluded.
(ii) Debt Capital Instruments issued by the banks;
(iii) Preference Share Capital Instruments [Perpetual Cumulative Preference Shares (PCPS)/
Redeemable Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (RNCPS)/Redeemable Cumulative Preference 
Shares (RCPS)] issued by the banks;
(iv) Stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of instruments included in Tier 2 
capital;
(v) While calculating capital adequacy at the consolidated level, Tier 2 capital instruments issued 
by consolidated subsidiaries of the bank and held by third parties which meet the criteria for 
inclusion in Tier 2 capital;
(vi) Revaluation reserves at a discount of 55%, if not included in CET1 Capital;
(vii) Any other type of instrument generally notified by the Reserve Bank from time to time for 
inclusion in Tier 2 capital; and
(viii) Less: Regulatory adjustments/deductions applied in the calculation of Tier 2 capital [i.e., to 
be deducted from the sum of items (i) to (vii)].
B. Criteria for Classification as Tier 2 Capital for Regulatory Purposes
Under Basel III, the criteria for instruments to be included in Tier 2 capital have been modified to 
improve their loss absorbency as indicated in Annex 5, 6 and 16. Criteria for inclusion of Debt Capital 
Instruments as Tier 2 capital are furnished in Annex 5. Criteria for inclusion of Perpetual Cumulative 
Preference Shares (PCPS)/Redeemable Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (RNCPS)/Redeemable 
Cumulative Preference Shares (RCPS) as part of Tier 2 capital are furnished in Annex 6. Annex 
16 contains criteria for loss absorption through conversion/write-off of all non-common equity 
regulatory capital instruments at the point of non-viability.
4.2.5.2 Tier 2 Capital – Foreign Banks’ Branches
A. Elements of Tier 2 Capital
Elements of Tier 2 capital in case of foreign banks’ branches will be as under:
(i) General Provisions and Loss Reserves as applicable for Indian banks;
(ii) Head Office (HO) borrowings in foreign currency received as part of Tier 2 debt capital; and
(iii) Revaluation reserves at a discount of 55%, if not included in CET1 Capital; and
(iv) Less: Regulatory adjustments/deductions applied in the calculation of Tier 2 capital [i.e., to 
be deducted from the sum of items (i) and (iii)].
Treasury Management.indb 324 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 325 325
B. Criteria for Classification as Tier 2 Capital for Regulatory Purposes
Criteria for inclusion of Head Office (HO) borrowings in foreign currency received as part of 
Tier 2 debt Capital for foreign banks are furnished in Annex 5 and Annex 16.
4.3 RECOGNITION OF MINORITY INTEREST (I.E. NON-CONTROLLING 
INTEREST) AND OTHER CAPITAL ISSUED OUT OF 
CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES THAT IS HELD BY THIRD 
PARTIES
4.3.1 Under Basel III, the minority interest is recognised only in cases where there is considerable 
explicit or implicit assurance that the minority interest which is supporting the risks of the subsidiary 
would be available to absorb the losses at the consolidated level. Accordingly, the portion of minority 
interest which supports risks in a subsidiary that is a bank will be included in group’s Common 
Equity Tier 1. Consequently, minority interest in the subsidiaries which are not banks will not be 
included in the regulatory capital of the group. In other words, the proportion of surplus capital 
which is attributable to the minority shareholders would be excluded from the group’s Common 
Equity Tier 1 capital. Further, as opposed to Basel II, a need was felt to extend the minority interest 
treatment to other components of regulatory capital also (i.e., Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 
capital). Therefore, under Basel III, the minority interest in relation to other components of regulatory 
capital will also be recognised.
Regulatory Adjustments/Deductions
The regulatory adjustments/deductions applied to regulatory capital both at solo and consolidated 
level are as under:
(a) Goodwill and all Other Intangible Assets
(b) Deferred Tax Assets (DTAs)
(c) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
(d) Shortfall of the Stock of Provisions to Expected Losses
(e) Gain on Sale Related to Securitisation Transactions
(f) Cumulative Gains and Losses due to Changes in Own Credit Risk on Fair Valued Financial 
Liabilities
(g) Defined Benefit Pension Fund Assets and Liabilities
(h) Investment in own shares (Treasury stock)
(i) Investments in the Capital of Banking, Financial and Insurance Entities
(j) Equity investments in non-financial subsidiaries
(k) Intra Group Transactions and Exposures
4.5 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.5.1 In order to ensure smooth migration to Basel III without aggravating any near term stress, 
appropriate transitional arrangements have been made. The transitional arrangements for capital ratios 
began as on April 1, 2013. However, the phasing out of non-Basel III compliant regulatory capital 
Treasury Management.indb 325 6/19/2018 6:24:11 PM
326 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
instruments began from January 1, 2013. Capital ratios and deductions from Common Equity will 
be fully phased-in and implemented as on March 31, 2019. The phase-in arrangements for banks 
operating in India are indicated in the following Table:
Table 1: Transitional Arrangements-Scheduled Commercial Banks
(excluding LABs and RRBs)
(% of RWAs)
Minimum 
capital ratios
April 1,
2013
March 
31, 2014
March 
31, 2015
March 
31, 2016
March 
31, 2017
March 
31, 2018
March 
31, 2019
Minimum 
Common Equity 
Tier 1 (CET1)
4.5 5 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5
Capital 
conservation 
buffer (CCB)
– – – 0.625 1.25 1.875 2.5
Minimum 
CET1+ CCB 4.5 5 5.5 6.125 6.75 7.375 8
Minimum Tier 1 
capital 6 6.5 7 7 7 7 7
Minimum Total 
Capital* 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
Minimum Total 
Capital +CCB 9 9 9 9.625 10.25 10.875 11.5
Phase-in of all 
deductions from 
CET1 (in %) #
20 40 60 80 100 100 100
*The difference between the minimum total capital requirement of 9% and the Tier 1 requirement 
can be met with Tier 2 and higher forms of capital;
# The same transition approach will apply to deductions from Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
4.5.2 The regulatory adjustments (i.e., deductions and prudential filters) would be fully deducted 
from Common Equity Tier 1 only by March 31, 2017. During this transition period, the remainder 
not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1/Additional Tier 1/Tier 2 capital will continue to be subject 
to treatments given under Basel II capital adequacy framework.
8. CAPITAL CHARGE FOR MARKET RISK
8.1 Introduction
Market risk is defined as the risk of losses in on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet positions arising 
from movements in market prices. The market risk positions subject to capital charge requirement are:
Treasury Management.indb 326 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 327 327
(i) The risks pertaining to interest rate related instruments and equities in the trading book; and
(ii) Foreign exchange risk (including open position in precious metals) throughout the bank (both 
banking and trading books).
8.2 Scope and Coverage of Capital Charge for Market Risks
8.2.1 These guidelines seek to address the issues involved in computing capital charges for interest 
rate related instruments in the trading book, equities in the trading book and foreign exchange risk 
(including gold and other precious metals) in both trading and banking books. Trading book for the 
purpose of capital adequacy will include:
(i) Securities included under the Held for Trading category
(ii) Securities included under the Available for Sale category
(iii) Open gold position limits
(iv) Open foreign exchange position limits
(v) Trading positions in derivatives, and
(vi) Derivatives entered into for hedging trading book exposures.
8.2.2 Banks are required to manage the market risks in their books on an ongoing basis and ensure 
that the capital requirements for market risks are being maintained on a continuous basis, i.e., at the 
close of each business day. Banks are also required to maintain strict risk management systems to 
monitor and control intra-day exposures to market risks.
8.2.3 Capital for market risk would not be relevant for securities, which have already matured and remain 
unpaid. These securities will attract capital only for credit risk. On completion of 90 days delinquency, 
these will be treated on par with NPAs for deciding the appropriate risk weights for credit risk.
8.3 Measurement of Capital Charge for Interest Rate Risk
8.3.1 This section describes the framework for measuring the risk of holding or taking positions in 
debt securities and other interest rate related instruments in the trading book.
8.3.2 The capital charge for interest rate related instruments would apply to current market value of 
these items in bank’s trading book. Since banks are required to maintain capital for market risks on 
an ongoing basis, they are required to mark to market their trading positions on a daily basis. The 
current market value will be determined as per extant RBI guidelines on valuation of investments.
8.3.3 The minimum capital requirement is expressed in terms of two separately calculated charges,
(i) “specific risk” charge for each security, which is designed to protect against an adverse 
movement in the price of an individual security owing to factors related to the individual 
issuer, both for short (short position is not allowed in India except in derivatives and Central 
Government Securities) and long positions, and
(ii) “general market risk” charge towards interest rate risk in the portfolio, where long and 
short positions (which is not allowed in India except in derivatives and Central Government 
Securities) in different securities or instruments can be offset.
Treasury Management.indb 327 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
328 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8.3.4 For the debt securities held under AFS category, in view of the possible longer holding period 
and attendant higher specific risk, the banks shall hold total capital charge for market risk equal to 
greater of (a) or (b) below:
(a) Specific risk capital charge, computed notionally for the AFS securities treating them as held 
under HFT category (as computed according to Table 16: Part A/C/E(i)/F/G/H, as applicable) 
plus the General Market Risk Capital Charge.
(b) Alternative total capital charge for the AFS category computed notionally treating them as 
held in the banking book (as computed in accordance with Table 16: Part B/D/E(ii)/F/G/I, as 
applicable)
A. Specific Risk
8.3.5 The capital charge for specific risk is designed to protect against an adverse movement in the 
price of an individual security owing to factors related to the individual issuer. The specific risk 
charges for various kinds of exposures would be applied as detailed below:
Sr. No. Nature of debt securities/issuer Table to be followed
a. Central, State and Foreign Central Governments’ Bonds:
(i) Held in HFT category
(ii) Held in AFS category
Table 16 – Part A
Table 16 – Part B
b. Banks’ Bonds:
(i) Held in HFT category
(ii) Held in AFS category
Table 16 – Part C
Table 16 – Part D
c. Corporate Bonds (other than Bank Bonds):
(i) Held in HFT category
(ii) Held in AFS category
Table 16 – Part E(i)
Table 16 – Part E(ii)
d. Securitised Debt Instruments
Held in HFT and AFS categories Table 16 – Part F
e. Re-securitised Debt Instruments
Held in HFT and AFS categories Table 16 – Part G
f. Non-common Equity Capital Instruments issued by Financial 
Entities other than Banks
(i) Held in HFT category
(ii) Held in AFS category
Table 16 – Part H
Table 16 – Part I
g. Equity Investments in Banks
Held in HFT and AFS Categories Table 19 – Part A
h. Equity Investments in Financial Entities (other than Banks)
Held in HFT and AFS Categories Table 19 – Part B
i. Equity Investments in Non-financial (commercial) Entities Table 19 – Part C
Note: Please refer to the Master Circular for details of Table 16 & Table 19.
Treasury Management.indb 328 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 329 329
8.3.6 Banks shall, in addition to computing the counterparty credit risk (CCR) charge for OTC derivatives, 
as part of capital for credit risk as per the Standardised Approach covered in paragraph 5 above, also 
compute the specific risk charge for OTC derivatives in the trading book as required in terms of Annex 9.
B. General Market Risk
8.3.7 The capital requirements for general market risk are designed to capture the risk of loss arising 
from changes in market interest rates. The capital charge is the sum of four components:
(i) the net short (short position is not allowed in India except in derivatives and Central 
Government Securities) or long position in the whole trading book;
(ii) a small proportion of the matched positions in each time-band (the “vertical disallowance”);
(iii) a larger proportion of the matched positions across different time-bands (the “horizontal 
disallowance”); and
(iv) a net charge for positions in options, where appropriate.
8.3.8 Separate maturity ladders should be used for each currency and capital charges should be 
calculated for each currency separately and then summed with no offsetting between positions of 
opposite sign. In the case of those currencies in which business is insignificant (where the turnover 
in the respective currency is less than 5 per cent of overall foreign exchange turnover), separate 
calculations for each currency are not required. The bank may, instead, slot within each appropriate 
time-band, the net long or short position for each currency. However, these individual net positions 
are to be summed within each time-band, irrespective of whether they are long or short positions, to 
produce a gross position figure. The gross positions in each time-band will be subject to the assumed 
change in yield set out in Table-2 with no further offsets.
8.3.9 The Basel Committee has suggested two broad methodologies for computation of capital 
charge for market risks. One is the standardised method and the other is the banks’ internal risk 
management models method. As banks in India are still in a nascent stage of developing internal 
risk management models, it has been decided that, to start with, banks may adopt the standardised 
method. Under the standardised method there are two principal methods of measuring market risk, 
a “maturity” method and a “duration” method. As “duration” method is a more accurate method of 
measuring interest rate risk, it has been decided to adopt standardised duration method to arrive at 
the capital charge. Accordingly, banks are required to measure the general market risk charge by 
calculating the price sensitivity (modified duration) of each position separately.
Under this method, the mechanics are as follows:
(i) first calculate the price sensitivity (modified duration) of each instrument;
(ii) next apply the assumed change in yield to the modified duration of each instrument between 
0.6 and 1.0 percentage points depending on the maturity of the instrument (see Table 17);
(iii) slot the resulting capital charge measures into a maturity ladder with the fifteen time bands 
as set out in Table 17;
(iv) subject long and short positions (short position is not allowed in India except in derivatives 
and Central Government Securities) in each time band to a 5 per cent vertical disallowance 
designed to capture basis risk; and
(v) carry forward the net positions in each time-band for horizontal offsetting subject to the 
disallowances set out in Table 18.
Treasury Management.indb 329 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
330 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Table 17. Duration Method – Time Bands and Assumed changes in Yield
Time Bands Assumed Change in Yield Time Bands Assumed Change in Yield
Zone 1 Zone 3
1 month or less 1.00 3.6 to 4.3 years 0.75
1 to 3 months 1.00 4.3 to 5.7 years 0.70
3 to 6 months 1.00 5.7 to 7.3 years 0.65
6 to 12 months 1.00 7.3 to 9.3 years 0.60
Zone 2 9.3 to 10.6 years 0.60
1.0 to 1.9 years 0.90 10.6 to 12 years 0.60
1.9 to 2.8 years 0.80 12 to 20 years 0.60
2.8 to 3.6 years 0.75 over 20 years 0.60
Table 18. Horizontal Disallowances
Zones Time band Within the zones Between 
adjacent zones
Between zones 1 and 3
Zone 1
1 month or less
40%
40%
40%
100%
1 to 3 months
3 to 6 months
6 to 12 months
Zone 2
1.0 to 1.9 years
1.9 to 2.8 years 30%
2.8 to 3.6 years
Zone 3
3.6 to 4.3 years
30%
4.3 to 5.7 years
5.7 to 7.3 years
7.3 to 9.3 years
9.3 to 10.6 years
10.6 to 12 years
12 to 20 years
over 20 years
8.3.10 The measurement system should include all interest rate derivatives and off balance-sheet 
instruments in the trading book which react to changes in interest rates, (e.g. forward rate agreements 
(FRAs), other forward contracts, bond futures, interest rate and cross-currency swaps and forward 
foreign exchange positions). Options can be treated in a variety of ways as described in Annex 9.
8.4 Measurement of Capital Charge for Equity Risk
8.4.1 The capital charge for equities would apply on their current market value in bank’s trading 
book. Minimum capital requirement to cover the risk of holding or taking positions in equities in 
�
�
�
Treasury Management.indb 330 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 331 331
the trading book is set out below. This is applied to all instruments that exhibit market behaviour 
similar to equities but not to non-convertible preference shares (which are covered by the interest 
rate risk requirements described earlier). The instruments covered include equity shares, whether 
voting or non-voting, convertible securities that behave like equities, for example: units of mutual 
funds, and commitments to buy or sell equity.
Specific and General Market Risk
8.4.2 Capital charge for specific risk (akin to credit risk) will be 11.25 per cent or capital charge in 
accordance with the risk warranted by external rating (or lack of it) of the counterparty, whichever 
is higher and specific risk is computed on banks’ gross equity positions (i.e., the sum of all long 
equity positions and of all short equity positions – short equity position is, however, not allowed 
for banks in India). In addition, the general market risk charge will also be 9 per cent on the gross 
equity positions. These capital charges will also be applicable to all trading book exposures, which 
are exempted from capital market exposure ceilings for direct investments.
8.4.3 Specific Risk Capital Charge for banks’ investment in Security Receipts will be 13.5 per cent 
(equivalent to 150 per cent risk weight). Since the Security Receipts are by and large illiquid and 
not traded in the secondary market, there will be no General Market Risk Capital Charge on them.
8.4.4 The specific risk charge for bank’s investments in the equity of other banks/other financial 
entities/non-financial entities will be as given in Table 19 as under:
Part A: Specific risk charge for bank’s investments in the equity of other banks held in HFT and 
AFS portfolios
Part B: Specific risk charge for bank’s investments in the equity of financial entities other than banks
Part C: Specific risk charge for bank’s investments in the equity of non-financial (commercial) entities
Note: Please refer to the Master Circular for details of Table 16 & Table 19.
8.5 Measurement of Capital Charge for Foreign Exchange Risk
The bank’s net open position in each currency should be calculated by summing:
• The net spot position (i.e., all asset items less all liability items, including accrued interest, 
denominated in the currency in question);
• The net forward position (i.e., all amounts to be received less all amounts to be paid under 
forward foreign exchange transactions, including currency futures and the principal on currency 
swaps not included in the spot position);
• Guarantees (and similar instruments) that are certain to be called and are likely to be 
irrecoverable;
• Net future income/expenses not yet accrued but already fully hedged (at the discretion of the 
reporting bank);
• Depending on particular accounting conventions in different countries, any other item 
representing a profit or loss in foreign currencies;
• The net delta-based equivalent of the total book of foreign currency options.
Treasury Management.indb 331 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
332 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Foreign exchange open positions and gold open positions are at present risk-weighted at 100 per 
cent. Thus, capital charge for market risks in foreign exchange and gold open position is 9 per cent. 
These open positions, limits or actual whichever is higher, would continue to attract capital charge 
at 9 per cent. This capital charge is in addition to the capital charge for credit risk on the on-balance 
sheet and off-balance sheet items pertaining to foreign exchange and gold transactions.
8.6 Measurement of Capital Charge for Credit Default Swap (CDS) 
in the Trading Book
8.6.1 General Market Risk
A credit default swap does not normally create a position for general market risk for either the 
protection buyer or protection seller. However, the present value of premium payable/receivable 
is sensitive to changes in the interest rates. In order to measure the interest rate risk in premium 
receivable/payable, the present value of the premium can be treated as a notional position in 
Government securities of relevant maturity. These positions will attract appropriate capital charge for 
general market risk. The protection buyer/seller will treat the present value of the premium payable/
receivable equivalent to a short/long notional position in Government securities of relevant maturity.
8.6.2 Specific Risk for Exposure to Reference Entity
A CDS creates a notional long/short position for specific risk in the reference asset/obligation for 
protection seller/protection buyer. For calculating specific risk capital charge, the notional amount 
of the CDS and its maturity should be used. The specific risk capital charge for CDS positions will 
be as per Tables below.
Table 20: Specific Risk Capital Charges for bought and sold CDS positions in the Trading 
Book: Exposures to entities other than Commercial Real Estate Companies/
NBFC-ND-SI
Upto 90 days After 90 days
Ratings by the 
ECAI*
Residual Maturity of 
the instrument
Capital charge Ratings by the 
ECAI*
Capital charge
AAA to BBB 6 months or less 0.28% AAA 1.8%
Greater than 6 
months and up to and 
including 24 months
1.14% AA 2.7%
Exceeding 24 months 1.80% A
BBB
4.5%
9.0%
BB and below All maturities 13.5% BB and below 13.5%
Unrated
(if permitted)
All maturities 9.0% Unrated
(if permitted)
9.0%
*These ratings indicate the ratings assigned by Indian rating agencies/ECAIs or foreign rating 
agencies. In the case of foreign ECAIs, the rating symbols used here correspond to Standard and 
Poor. The modifiers “+” or “–” have been subsumed within the main category.
Treasury Management.indb 332 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 333 333
Table 21: Specific Risk Capital Charges for bought and sold CDS positions in the Trading 
Book: Exposures to Commercial Real Estate Companies/NBFC-ND-SI#
Ratings by the ECAI* Residual Maturity of the instrument Capital charge
AAA to BBB 6 months or less 1.4%
Greater than 6 months and up to and 
including 24 months
7.7%
Exceeding 24 months 9.0%
BB and below All maturities 9.0%
Unrated (if permitted) All maturities 9.0%
#The above table will be applicable for exposures up to 90 days. Capital charge for exposures to 
Commercial Real Estate Companies/NBFC-ND-SI beyond 90 days shall be taken at 9.0%, regardless 
of rating of the reference/deliverable obligation.
*These ratings indicate the ratings assigned by Indian rating agencies/ECAIs or foreign rating 
agencies. In the case of foreign ECAIs, the rating symbols used here correspond to Standard and 
Poor. The modifiers “+” or “–” have been subsumed within the main category.
8.6.2.1 Specific Risk Capital Charges for Positions Hedged by CDS
(i) Banks may fully offset the specific risk capital charges when the values of two legs (i.e., long 
and short in CDS positions) always move in the opposite direction and broadly to the same 
extent. This would be the case when the two legs consist of completely identical CDS. In 
these cases, no specific risk capital requirement applies to both sides of the CDS positions.
(ii) Banks may offset 80 per cent of the specific risk capital charges when the value of two legs 
(i.e. long and short) always moves in the opposite direction but not broadly to the same extent. 
This would be the case when a long cash position is hedged by a credit default swap and there 
is an exact match in terms of the reference/deliverable obligation, and the maturity of both the 
reference/deliverable obligation and the CDS. In addition, key features of the CDS (e.g., credit 
event definitions, settlement mechanisms) should not cause the price movement of the CDS to 
materially deviate from the price movements of the cash position. To the extent that the transaction 
transfers risk, an 80% specific risk offset will be applied to the side of the transaction with the 
higher capital charge, while the specific risk requirement on the other side will be zero.
(iii) Banks may offset partially the specific risk capital charges when the value of the two legs 
(i.e. long and short) usually moves in the opposite direction. This would be the case in the 
following situations:
(a) The position is captured in paragraph 8.6.2.1(ii) but there is an asset mismatch between the 
cash position and the CDS. However, the underlying asset is included in the (reference/
deliverable) obligations in the CDS documentation and meets the requirements in 
paragraph 5.17.1.3(i) above.
(b) The position is captured in paragraph 8.6.2.1(ii) but there is maturity mismatch between 
credit protection and the underlying asset. However, the underlying asset is included in 
the (reference/deliverable) obligations in the CDS documentation.
Treasury Management.indb 333 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
334 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(c) In each of the cases in paragraph (a) and (b) above, rather than applying specific risk 
capital requirements on each side of the transaction (i.e., the credit protection and the 
underlying asset), only higher of the two capital requirements will apply.
8.6.2.2 Specific Risk Charge in CDS Positions which are not meant for Hedging
In cases not captured in paragraph 8.6.2.1, a specific risk capital charge will be assessed against 
both sides of the positions.
8.6.3 Capital Charge for Counterparty Credit Risk
The credit exposure for the purpose of counterparty credit risk on account of CDS transactions in 
the Trading Book will be calculated according to the Current Exposure Method.
8.6.3.1 Protection Seller
A protection seller will have exposure to the protection buyer only if the fee/premia is outstanding. 
In such cases, the counterparty credit risk charge for all single name long CDS positions in the 
Trading Book will be calculated as the sum of the current marked-to-market value, if positive (zero, 
if marked-to-market value is negative) and the potential future exposure add-on factors based on 
table given below. However, the add-on will be capped to the amount of unpaid premia.
Table 22: Add-on Factors for Protection Sellers
(As % of Notional Principal of CDS)
Type of Reference Obligation Add-on Factor
Obligations rated BBB- and above 10%
Below BBB- and unrated 20%
8.6.3.2 Protection Buyer
A CDS contract creates a counterparty exposure on the protection seller on account of the credit 
event payment. The counterparty credit risk charge for all short CDS positions in the Trading Book 
will be calculated as the sum of the current marked-to-market value, if positive (zero, if marked-tomarket value is negative) and the potential future exposure add-on factors based on table given below:
Table 23: Add-on Factors for Protection Buyers
(As % of Notional Principal of CDS)
Type of Reference Obligation Add-on Factor
Obligations rated BBB and above 10%
Below BBB and unrated 20%
8.6.3.3 Capital Charge for Counterparty Risk for Collateralised Transactions in CDS
As mentioned in paragraph 3.3 of the circular IDMD.PCD.No.5053/14.03.04/2010-11 dated May 
23, 2011, collaterals and margins would be maintained by the individual market participants. The 
Treasury Management.indb 334 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 335 335
counterparty exposure for CDS traded in the OTC market will be calculated as per the Current 
Exposure Method. Under this method, the calculation of the counterparty credit risk charge for an 
individual contract, taking into account the collateral, will be as follows:
Counterparty risk capital charge = [(RC + add-on) – CA] × r × 9%
Where;
   RC = the replacement cost,
add-on = the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to paragraph 5.17.3 above.
CA = the volatility adjusted amount of eligible collateral under the comprehensive approach prescribed 
in paragraph 7.3 on “Credit Risk Mitigation Techniques – Collateralised Transactions” of these 
guidelines, or zero if no eligible collateral is applied to the transaction, and
   r = the risk weight of the counterparty.
8.6.4 Treatment of Exposures below Materiality Thresholds of CDS
Materiality thresholds on payments below which no payment is made in the event of loss are 
equivalent to retained first loss positions and should be assigned risk weight of 1250 per cent for 
capital adequacy purpose by the protection buyer.
8.7 Aggregation of the capital charge for Market Risks
As explained earlier capital charges for specific risk and general market risk are to be computed 
separately before aggregation. For computing the total capital charge and Risk Weighted Assets for 
market risks, the calculations may be plotted in the following table:
Risk Category Capital charge Risk Weighted Assets (RWA)
I. Interest Rate (a+b) 12.5 times the capital charge
   a. General market risk
(i) Net position (parallel shift)
(ii) Horizontal disallowance 
(curvature)
(iii) Vertical disallowance (basis)
(iv) Options
   b. Specific risk
II. Equity (a+b) 12.5 times the capital charge
   a. General market risk
   b. Specific risk
III. Foreign Exchange and Gold 12.5 times the capital charge
IV. Total capital charge and RWA for 
market risks (I+II+III)
Treasury Management.indb 335 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
336 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
8.8 Treatment for Illiquid Positions
8.8.1 Prudent Valuation Guidance
(i) This section provides banks with guidance on prudent valuation for positions that are accounted 
for at fair value. This guidance would be applicable to all positions enumerated in paragraph 
8.2.1 above. It is especially important for positions without actual market prices or observable 
inputs to valuation, as well as less liquid positions which raise supervisory concerns about 
prudent valuation. The valuation guidance set forth below is not intended to require banks to 
change valuation procedures for financial reporting purposes.
(ii) A framework for prudent valuation practices should at a minimum include the following:
8.8.1.1 Systems and Controls
Banks must establish and maintain adequate systems and controls sufficient to give management and 
supervisors the confidence that their valuation estimates are prudent and reliable. These systems must 
be integrated with other risk management systems within the organisation (such as credit analysis). 
Such systems must include:
(i) Documented policies and procedures for the process of valuation. This includes clearly defined 
responsibilities of the various areas involved in the determination of the valuation, sources of 
market information and review of their appropriateness, guidelines for the use of unobservable 
inputs reflecting the bank’s assumptions of what market participants would use in pricing 
the position, frequency of independent valuation, timing of closing prices, procedures for 
adjusting valuations, end of the month and ad-hoc verification procedures; and
(ii) Clear and independent (i.e., independent of front office) reporting lines for the department 
accountable for the valuation process.
8.8.1.2 Valuation Methodologies:
Marking to Market
(i) Marking-to-market is at least the daily valuation of positions at readily available close out 
prices in orderly transactions that are sourced independently. Examples of readily available 
close out prices include exchange prices, screen prices, or quotes from several independent 
reputable brokers.
(ii) Banks must mark-to-market as much as possible. The more prudent side of bid/offer should 
be used unless the institution is a significant market maker in a particular position type and it 
can close out at mid-market. Banks should maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimise the use of unobservable inputs when estimating fair value using a valuation technique. 
However, observable inputs or transactions may not be relevant, such as in a forced liquidation 
or distressed sale, or transactions may not be observable, such as when markets are inactive. 
In such cases, the observable data should be considered, but may not be determinative.
Marking to Model
(iii) Marking to model is defined as any valuation which has to be benchmarked, extrapolated 
or otherwise calculated from a market input. Where marking-to-market is not possible, 
Treasury Management.indb 336 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 337 337
banks should follow the guidelines on valuation of investments contained in Master Circular 
DBOD No.BP.BC.3/21.04.141/2009-10 dated July 1, 2009, as amended from time to time on 
prudential norms for classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio by banks. 
For investment and derivative positions other than those covered in the Master Circular, the 
valuation model used by banks must be demonstrated to be prudent. When marking to valuation 
model other than that prescribed in RBI/FIMMDA guidelines, an extra degree of conservatism 
is appropriate. RBI will consider the following in assessing whether a mark-to-model valuation 
is prudent:
• Senior management should be aware of the elements of the trading book or of other fairvalued positions which are subject to mark to model and should understand the materiality 
of the uncertainty this creates in the reporting of the risk/performance of the business.
• Market inputs should be sourced, to the extent possible, in line with market prices (as 
discussed above). The appropriateness of the market inputs for the particular position 
being valued should be reviewed regularly.
• Where available, generally accepted valuation methodologies for particular products should 
be used as far as possible.
• Where the model is developed by the institution itself, it should be based on appropriate 
assumptions, which have been assessed and challenged by suitably qualified parties 
independent of the development process. The model should be developed or approved 
independently of the front office. It should be independently tested. This includes validating 
the mathematics, the assumptions and the software implementation.
• There should be formal change control procedures in place and a secure copy of the model 
should be held and periodically used to check valuations.
• Risk management should be aware of the weaknesses of the models used and how best to 
reflect those in the valuation output.
• The model should be subject to periodic review to determine the accuracy of its performance 
(e.g., assessing continued appropriateness of the assumptions, analysis of P&L versus risk 
factors, comparison of actual close out values to model outputs).
• Valuation adjustments should be made as appropriate, for example, to cover the uncertainty 
of the model valuation (see also valuation adjustments in paragraphs 8.8.1.2 (vi), (vii) and 
8.8.2.1 to 8.8.2.4.)
Independent Price Verification
(iv) Independent price verification is distinct from daily mark-to-market. It is the process by which 
market prices or model inputs are regularly verified for accuracy. While daily marking-to-market 
may be performed by dealers, verification of market prices or model inputs should be performed 
by a unit independent of the dealing room, at least monthly (or, depending on the nature of the 
market/trading activity, more frequently). It need not be performed as frequently as daily markto-market, since the objective, i.e., independent, marking of positions should reveal any error 
or bias in pricing, which should result in the elimination of inaccurate daily marks.
(v) Independent price verification entails a higher standard of accuracy in that the market prices 
or model inputs are used to determine profit and loss figures, whereas daily marks are used 
primarily for management reporting in between reporting dates. For independent price 
Treasury Management.indb 337 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
338 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
verification, where pricing sources are more subjective, e.g., only one available broker quote, 
prudent measures such as valuation adjustments may be appropriate.
Valuation Adjustments
(vi) As part of their procedures for marking to market, banks must establish and maintain procedures 
for considering valuation adjustments. RBI would particularly expect banks using third-party 
valuations to consider whether valuation adjustments are necessary. Such considerations are 
also necessary when marking to model.
(vii) At a minimum, banks should consider the following valuation adjustments while valuing their 
derivatives portfolios:
• incurred CVA losses,
• closeout costs,
• operational risks,
• early termination, investing and funding costs, and
• future administrative costs and,
• where appropriate, model risk.
Banks may follow any recognised method/model to compute the above adjustments except provisions 
against incurred CVA losses. However, banks may use the following formula to calculate incurred 
CVA loss on derivatives transactions:
ICVALt = Max [0,{(EEt *RPt) – (EE0 *RP0)}]
Where;
ICVALt = Cumulative Incurred CVA loss at time ‘t’.
EEt = Value of counterparty exposure projected after one year from ‘t’ and discounted back to 
‘t’ using CEM and a risk free discount rate for one year.
EE0 = Counterparty exposure estimated at time ‘0’ using CEM.
RPt = Credit spread of the counterparty as reflected in the CDS or bond prices.
In cases where market based credit spreads are not available, risk premium applicable to the 
counterparty according to its credit grade as per the internal credit rating system of the bank used 
for pricing/loan approval purposes at time ‘t’ may be used.
RP0 = Credit spread of the counterparty as reflected in the CDS or bond prices.
In cases where market based credit spreads are not available, risk premium applicable to the 
counterparty according to its credit grade as per the internal credit rating system of the bank used 
for pricing/loan approval purposes at time ‘0’ i.e., the date of the transaction.
Note: Some of other terms used above are explained below:
Close-out costs
Close-out costs adjustment factors in the cost of eliminating the market risk of the portfolio.
Investing and Funding costs
The “investing and funding costs adjustment” relating to the cost of funding and investing cash flow 
mismatches at rates different from the rate which models typically assume.
Treasury Management.indb 338 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 339 339
Administrative costs adjustment
Administrative costs adjustment relates to the costs that will be incurred to administer the portfolio.
8.8.2 Adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions for 
regulatory capital purposes
8.8.2.1 Banks must establish and maintain procedures for judging the necessity of and calculating 
an adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions for regulatory capital purposes. This 
adjustment may be in addition to any changes to the value of the position required for financial 
reporting purposes and should be designed to reflect the illiquidity of the position. An adjustment 
to a position’s valuation to reflect current illiquidity should be considered whether the position 
is marked to market using market prices or observable inputs, third-party valuations or marked 
to model.
8.8.2.2 Bearing in mind that the assumptions made about liquidity in the market risk capital charge 
may not be consistent with the bank’s ability to sell or hedge out less liquid positions where 
appropriate, banks must take an adjustment to the current valuation of these positions, and review 
their continued appropriateness on an on-going basis. Reduced liquidity may have arisen from market 
events. Additionally, close-out prices for concentrated positions and/or stale positions should be 
considered in establishing the adjustment. RBI has not prescribed any particularly methodology for 
calculating the amount of valuation adjustment on account of illiquid positions. Banks must consider 
all relevant factors when determining the appropriateness of the adjustment for less liquid positions. 
These factors may include, but are not limited to, the amount of time it would take to hedge out 
the position/risks within the position, the average volatility of bid/offer spreads, the availability of 
independent market quotes (number and identity of market makers), the average and volatility of 
trading volumes (including trading volumes during periods of market stress), market concentrations, 
the aging of positions, the extent to which valuation relies on marking-to-model, and the impact of 
other model risks not included in paragraph 8.8.2.2. The valuation adjustment on account of illiquidity 
should be considered irrespective of whether the guidelines issued by FIMMDA have taken into 
account the illiquidity premium or not, while fixing YTM/spreads for the purpose of valuation.
8.8.2.3 For complex products including, but not limited to, securitisation exposures, banks must 
explicitly assess the need for valuation adjustments to reflect two forms of model risk:
(i) the model risk associated with using a possibly incorrect valuation methodology; and
(ii) the risk associated with using unobservable (and possibly incorrect) calibration parameters 
in the valuation model.
8.8.2.4 The adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions made under paragraph 8.8.2.2 
will not be debited to P&L Account, but will be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital while 
computing CRAR of the bank. The adjustment may exceed those valuation adjustments made under 
financial reporting/accounting standards and paragraphs 8.8.1.2 (vi) and (vii).
8.8.2.5 In calculating the eligible capital for market risk, it will be necessary first to calculate the 
banks’ minimum capital requirement for credit and operational risk and only afterwards its market 
risk requirement to establish how much components of capital is available to support market risk.
Treasury Management.indb 339 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
340 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
9. CAPITAL CHARGE FOR OPERATIONAL RISK
9.1 Definition of Operational Risk
Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
people and systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic 
and reputational risk. Legal risk includes, but is not limited to, exposure to fines, penalties, or punitive 
damages resulting from supervisory actions, as well as private settlements.
9.2 The Measurement Methodologies
The New Capital Adequacy Framework (NCAF) outlines three methods for calculating operational 
risk capital charges in a continuum of increasing sophistication and risk sensitivity:
(i) the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA);
(ii) the Standardised Approach (TSA); and
(iii) Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA).
9.2.2 Banks are encouraged to move along the spectrum of available approaches as they develop 
more sophisticated operational risk measurement systems and practices.
9.2.3 The New Capital Adequacy Framework provides that internationally active banks and banks 
with significant operational risk exposures are expected to use an approach that is more sophisticated 
than the Basic Indicator Approach and that is appropriate for the risk profile of the institution. 
However, to begin with, banks in India shall compute the capital requirements for operational risk 
under the Basic Indicator Approach. Reserve Bank will review the capital requirement produced by 
the Basic Indicator Approach for general credibility, especially in relation to a bank’s peers and in 
the event that credibility is lacking, appropriate supervisory action under Pillar 2 will be considered.
9.3 The Basic Indicator Approach
9.3.1 Under the Basic Indicator Approach, banks must hold capital for operational risk equal to the 
average over the previous three years of a fixed percentage (denoted as alpha) of positive annual gross 
income. Figures for any year in which annual gross income is negative or zero should be excluded 
from both the numerator and denominator when calculating the average. If negative gross income 
distorts a bank’s Pillar 1 capital charge, Reserve Bank will consider appropriate supervisory action 
under Pillar 2. The charge may be expressed as follows:
 KBIA = [Σ (GI1…n × α)]/n
Where:
KBIA = the capital charge under the Basic Indicator Approach.
GI = annual gross income, where positive, over the previous three years.
n = number of the previous three years for which gross income is positive.
α = 15 per cent, which is set by the BCBS, relating the industry wide level of required capital 
to the industry wide level of the indicator.
Treasury Management.indb 340 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 341 341
9.3.2 Gross income is defined as “Net interest income” plus “net non-interest income”. It is intended 
that this measure should:
(i) be gross of any provisions (e.g., for unpaid interest) and write-offs made during the year;
(ii) be gross of operating expenses, including fees paid to outsourcing service providers, in addition 
to fees paid for services that are outsourced, fees received by banks that provide outsourcing 
services shall be included in the definition of gross income;
(iii) exclude reversal during the year in respect of provisions and write-offs made during the 
previous year(s);
(iv) exclude income recognised from the disposal of items of movable and immovable property;
(v) exclude realised profits/losses from the sale of securities in the “held to maturity” category;
(vi) exclude income from legal settlements in favour of the bank;
(vii) exclude other extraordinary or irregular items of income and expenditure; and
(viii) exclude income derived from insurance activities (i.e. income derived by writing insurance 
policies) and insurance claims in favour of the bank.
9.3.3 Banks are advised to compute capital charge for operational risk under the Basic Indicator 
Approach as follows:
(a) Average of [Gross Income * alpha] for each of the last three financial years, excluding years 
of negative or zero gross income
(b) Gross income = Net profit (+) Provisions & contingencies (+) operating expenses (Schedule 
16) (–) items (iii) to (viii) of paragraph 9.3.2.
(c) Alpha = 15 per cent
9.3.4 As a point of entry for capital calculation, no specific criteria for use of the Basic Indicator 
Approach are set out in these guidelines. Nevertheless, banks using this approach are encouraged 
to comply with the Basel Committee’s guidance on ‘Sound Practices for the Management and 
Supervision of Operational Risk’, February 2003 and the ‘Guidance Note on Management of 
Operational Risk’, issued by the Reserve Bank of India in October, 2005.
9.3.5 Once the bank has calculated the capital charge for operational risk under BIA, it has to multiply 
this with 12.5 and arrive at the notional risk weighted asset (RWA) for operational risk.
ANNEX 5
(cf. para 4.2.5)
Criteria for Inclusion of Debt Capital Instruments as Tier 2 Capital
The Tier 2 debt capital instruments that may be issued as bonds/debentures by Indian banks should 
meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion as Tier 2 Capital for capital 
adequacy purposes:
1. Terms of Issue of Instruments Denominated in Indian Rupees
1.1 Paid-in Status
The instruments should be issued by the bank (i.e., not by any ‘SPV’, etc., set up by the bank for 
this purpose) and fully paid-in.
Treasury Management.indb 341 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
342 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.2 Amount
The amount of these debt instruments to be raised may be decided by the Board of Directors of banks.
1.3 Maturity Period
The debt instruments should have a minimum maturity of five years and there are no step-ups or 
other incentives to redeem.
1.4 Discount
The debt instruments shall be subjected to a progressive discount for capital adequacy purposes. As 
they approach maturity these instruments should be subjected to progressive discount as indicated 
in the table below for being eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital.
Remaining Maturity of Instruments Rate of Discount
(%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
1.5 Rate of Interest
(i) The interest payable to the investors may be either at a fixed rate or at a floating rate referenced 
to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(ii) The instrument cannot have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a coupon that is reset 
periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’ credit standing. Banks desirous of offering 
floating reference rate may take prior approval of the RBI (DBR) as regard permissibility of 
such reference rates.
1.6 Optionality
The debt instruments shall not have any ‘put option’. However, it may be callable at the initiative 
of the issuer only after a minimum of five years:
(a) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior approval of RBI (Department of Banking 
Regulation); and
(b) A bank must not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will be exercised. For 
example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument being called, the dividend/coupon 
reset date need not be co-terminus with the call date. Banks may, at their discretion, consider 
having an appropriate gap between dividend/coupon reset date and call date; and
(c) Banks must not exercise a call unless:
(i) They replace the called instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the 
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income 
capacity of the bank; or
Treasury Management.indb 342 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 343 343
(ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the call option is exercised.
The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However, exercise of the calls 
on account of these events is subject to the requirements set out in points (a) to (c) of criterion 1.6. 
RBI will permit the bank to exercise the call only if the RBI is convinced that the bank was not in a 
position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of these instruments as explained in case 
of Additional Tier 1 instruments.
1.7 Treatment in Bankruptcy/Liquidation
The investor must have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future scheduled payments (coupon 
or principal) except in bankruptcy and liquidation.
1.8 Prohibition on Purchase/Funding of Instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or significant influence 
(as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) should purchase the instrument, nor can the bank 
directly or indirectly should fund the purchase of the instrument. Banks should also not grant advances 
against the security of the debt instruments issued by them.
1.9 Reporting of Non-payment of Coupons
All instances of non-payment of coupon should be notified by the issuing banks to the Chief General 
Managers-in-Charge of Department of Banking Regulation and Department of Banking Supervision 
of the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
1.10 Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be
(i) senior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 capital;
(ii) subordinate to the claims of all depositors and general creditors of the bank; and
(iii) is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity or other arrangement 
that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
1.11 Investment in Instruments Raised in Indian Rupees by Foreign Entities/NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs in Tier 2 instruments raised in Indian Rupees shall be outside the limit for 
investment in corporate debt instruments, as fixed by the Govt. of India from time to time. However, 
investment by FIIs in these instruments will be subject to a separate ceiling of USD 500 million. 
In addition, NRIs shall also be eligible to invest in these instruments as per existing policy.
(ii) Banks should comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by SEBI/other regulatory 
authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
1.12 Terms of Issue of Tier 2 Debt Capital Instruments in Foreign Currency
Banks may issue Tier 2 Debt Instruments in Foreign Currency without seeking the prior approval of 
the Reserve Bank of India, subject to compliance with the requirements mentioned below:
(i) Tier 2 Instruments issued in foreign currency should comply with all terms and conditions 
applicable to instruments issued in Indian Rupees.
Treasury Management.indb 343 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
344 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(ii) The total outstanding amount of Tier 2 Instruments in foreign currency shall not exceed 25% 
of the unimpaired Tier 1 capital. This eligible amount will be computed with reference to 
the amount of Tier 1 capital as on March 31 of the previous financial year, after deduction of 
goodwill and other intangible assets but before the deduction of investments, as per paragraph 
4.4.9 of the Master Circular on Basel III capital regulations.
(iii) This will be in addition to the existing limit for foreign currency borrowings by Authorised 
Dealers stipulated in terms of Master Circular No. 14/2010-11 dated July 1, 2010 on Risk 
Management and Inter-Bank Dealings as updated from time to time.
1.13 Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the issue and held 
pending finalisation of allotment of the Tier 2 Capital instruments will have to be taken into 
account for the purpose of calculating reserve requirements.
(ii) The total amount raised by a bank through Tier 2 instruments shall be reckoned as liability 
for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve requirements 
and, as such, will attract CRR/SLR requirements.
1.14 Reporting of Issuances
Banks issuing debt instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-charge, 
Department of Banking Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai giving details of the debt raised, 
including the terms of issue specified at para 1 above, together with a copy of the offer document 
soon after the issue is completed.
1.15 Investment in Tier 2 Debt Capital Instruments Issued by Other Banks/FIs
(i) A bank’s investment in Tier 2 debt instruments issued by other banks and financial institutions 
will be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital status 
while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10% for cross holding of capital 
among banks/FIs prescribed vide circular DBOD.BP.BC.No.3/21.01.002/2004-05 dated 6th 
July 2004 and also subject to cross holding limits.
(ii) Bank’s investments in Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks/financial institutions will 
attract risk weight as per paragraphs 5.6 and 8.3.5 of the Master Circular on Basel III Capital 
Regulations, whichever applicable for capital adequacy purposes.
1.16 Classification in the Balance Sheet
The amount raised by way of issue of Tier 2 debt capital instrument may be classified under ‘Schedule 
4 – Borrowings’ in the Balance Sheet.
1.17 Debt Capital Instruments to Retail Investors
With a view to enhancing investor education relating to risk characteristics of regulatory capital 
requirements, banks issuing subordinated debt to retail investors, subject to approval of their Board, 
should adhere to the following conditions:
(a) For floating rate instruments, banks should not use its Fixed Deposit rate as benchmark.
(b) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors for having understood 
the features and risks of the instrument may be incorporated in the common application form 
of the proposed debt issue.
Treasury Management.indb 344 6/19/2018 6:24:12 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 345 345
 “By making this application, I/We acknowledge that I/We have understood the terms and 
conditions of the Issue of [insert the name of the instruments being issued ] of [Name 
of The Bank ] as disclosed in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche 
Document”.
(c) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the investor should 
clearly state in bold letters (with font size 14) how a subordinated bond is different from 
fixed deposit particularly that it is not covered by deposit insurance. In addition, the loss 
absorbency features of the instrument should be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-off 
for having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the instrument should 
be obtained.
1.18 Raising of Instruments for Inclusion as Tier 2 Capital by Foreign Banks in India
Foreign banks in India may raise Head Office (HO) borrowings in foreign currency for inclusion as 
Tier 2 capital subject to the same terms and conditions as mentioned in items 1.1 to 1.17 above for 
Indian banks. In addition, the following terms and conditions would also be applicable:
(a) Maturity period: If the amount of Tier 2 debt capital raised as HO borrowings is in tranches, 
each tranche shall be retained in India for a minimum period of five years.
(b) Rate of interest: Rate of interest on Tier 2 capital raised as HO borrowings should not exceed 
the on-going market rate. Interest should be paid at half yearly rests.
(c) Withholding tax: Interest payments to the HO will be subject to applicable withholding 
tax.
(d) Documentation: The foreign bank raising Tier 2 debt capital as HO borrowings should obtain 
a letter from its HO agreeing to give the loan for supplementing the capital base for the Indian 
operations of the foreign bank. The loan documentation should confirm that the loan given 
by HO shall be eligible for the same level of seniority of claim as the investors in debt capital 
instruments issued by Indian banks. The loan agreement will be governed by and construed 
in accordance with the Indian law.
(e) Disclosure: The total eligible amount of HO borrowings shall be disclosed in the balance sheet 
under the head ‘Tier 2 debt capital raised in the form of Head Office borrowings in foreign 
currency’.
(f) Hedging: The total eligible amount of HO borrowing should remain fully swapped in Indian 
Rupees with the bank at all times.
(g) Reporting and certification: Details regarding the total amount of Tier 2 debt capital raised 
as HO borrowings, along with a certification to the effect that the borrowing is in accordance 
with these guidelines, should be advised to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of the 
Department of Banking Regulation (International Banking Division), Department of External 
Investments and Operations and Financial Markets Regulation Department, Reserve Bank of 
India, Mumbai.
(h) Features: The HO borrowings should be fully paid up, i.e., the entire borrowing or each tranche 
of the borrowing should be available in full to the branch in India. It should be unsecured, 
subordinated to the claims of other creditors of the foreign bank in India, free of restrictive 
clauses and should not be redeemable at the instance of the HO.
Treasury Management.indb 345 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
346 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(i) Rate of discount: The HO borrowings will be subjected to progressive discount as they 
approach maturity at the rates indicated below:
Remaining maturity of borrowing Rate of discount (%)
More than 5 years Not Applicable
(the entire amount can be included as 
subordinated debt in Tier 2 capital)
More than 4 years and less than 5 years 20
More than 3 years and less than 4 years 40
More than 2 years and less than 3 years 60
More than 1 year and less than 2 years 80
Less than 1 year 100
(No amount can be treated
1.19 Requirements
The total amount of HO borrowings is to be reckoned as liability for the calculation of net demand 
and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, will attract CRR/SLR 
requirements.
1.20 Hedging
The entire amount of HO borrowing should remain fully swapped with banks at all times. The swap 
should be in Indian rupees.
1.21 Reporting and Certification
Such borrowings done in compliance with the guidelines set out above would not require 
prior approval of Reserve Bank of India. However, information regarding the total amount of 
borrowing raised from Head Office under this Annex, along with a certification to the effect 
that the borrowing is as per the guidelines, should be advised to the Chief General Managers-inCharge of the Department of Banking Regulation (International Banking Division), Department 
of External Investments and Operations and Financial Markets Regulation Department, Reserve 
Bank of India, Mumbai.
ANNEX 9
(cf. para 8.3.10)
Measurement of capital charge for Market Risks in respect of
Interest Rate Derivatives and Options
A. Interest Rate Derivatives
The measurement system should include all interest rate derivatives and off-balance-sheet instruments 
in the trading book, which react to changes in interest rates, (e.g., forward rate agreements (FRAs), 
Treasury Management.indb 346 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 347 347
other forward contracts, bond futures, interest rate and cross-currency swaps and forward foreign 
exchange positions). Options can be treated in a variety of ways as described in para B.1 below. A 
summary of the rules for dealing with interest rate derivatives is set out in the Table at the end of 
this section.
1. Calculation of positions
The derivatives should be converted into positions in the relevant underlying and be subjected to 
specific and general market risk charges as described in the guidelines. In order to calculate the capital 
charge, the amounts reported should be the market value of the principal amount of the underlying 
or of the notional underlying. For instruments where the apparent notional amount differs from the 
effective notional amount, banks must use the effective notional amount.
(a) Futures and Forward Contracts, including Forward Rate Agreements
These instruments are treated as a combination of a long and a short position in a notional government 
security. The maturity of a future or a FRA will be the period until delivery or exercise of the contract, 
plus – where applicable – the life of the underlying instrument. For example, a long position in a June 
three-month interest rate future (taken in April) is to be reported as a long position in a government 
security with a maturity of five months and a short position in a government security with a maturity 
of two months. Where a range of deliverable instruments may be delivered to fulfill the contract, the 
bank has flexibility to elect which deliverable security goes into the duration ladder but should take 
account of any conversion factor defined by the exchange.
(b) Swaps
Swaps will be treated as two notional positions in government securities with relevant maturities. For 
example, an interest rate swap under which a bank is receiving floating rate interest and paying fixed 
will be treated as a long position in a floating rate instrument of maturity equivalent to the period 
until the next interest fixing and a short position in a fixed-rate instrument of maturity equivalent to the 
residual life of the swap. For swaps that pay or receive a fixed or floating interest rate against some other 
reference price, e.g., a stock index, the interest rate component should be slotted into the appropriate 
repricing maturity category, with the equity component being included in the equity framework.
Separate legs of cross-currency swaps are to be reported in the relevant maturity ladders for the 
currencies concerned.
2. Calculation of capital charges for derivatives under the Standardised Methodology
(a) Allowable offsetting of Matched Positions
Banks may exclude the following from the interest rate maturity framework altogether (for both 
specific and general market risk):
• Long and short positions (both actual and notional) in identical instruments with exactly the 
same issuer, coupon, currency and maturity.
• A matched position in a future or forward and its corresponding underlying may also be fully 
offset, (the leg representing the time to expiry of the future should however be reported) and 
thus excluded from the calculation.
Treasury Management.indb 347 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
348 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
When the future or the forward comprises a range of deliverable instruments, offsetting of positions 
in the future or forward contract and its underlying is only permissible in cases where there is a 
readily identifiable underlying security which is most profitable for the trader with a short position 
to deliver. The price of this security, sometimes called the “cheapest-to-deliver”, and the price of 
the future or forward contract should in such cases move in close alignment.
No offsetting will be allowed between positions in different currencies; the separate legs of crosscurrency swaps or forward foreign exchange deals are to be treated as notional positions in the 
relevant instruments and included in the appropriate calculation for each currency.
In addition, opposite positions in the same category of instruments can in certain circumstances be 
regarded as matched and allowed to offset fully. To qualify for this treatment the positions must 
relate to the same underlying instruments, be of the same nominal value and be denominated in the 
same currency. In addition:
• for Futures: offsetting positions in the notional or underlying instruments to which the 
futures contract relates must be for identical products and mature within seven days of each 
other;
• for Swaps and FRAs: the reference rate (for floating rate positions) must be identical and the 
coupon closely matched (i.e., within 15 basis points); and
• for Swaps, FRAs and Forwards: the next interest fixing date or, for fixed coupon positions or 
forwards, the residual maturity must correspond within the following limits:
o less than one month hence: same day;
o between one month and one year hence: within seven days;
o over one year hence: within thirty days.
Banks with large swap books may use alternative formulae for these swaps to calculate the 
positions to be included in the duration ladder. The method would be to calculate the sensitivity 
of the net present value implied by the change in yield used in the duration method and allocate 
these sensitivities into the time-bands set out in Table 17 in paragraph 8.3.9 of the Basel III Capital 
Regulations.
(b) Specific Risk
Interest rate and currency swaps, FRAs, forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate 
futures will not be subject to a specific risk charge. This exemption also applies to futures on an 
interest rate index (e.g., LIBOR). However, in the case of futures contracts where the underlying is 
a debt security, or an index representing a basket of debt securities, a specific risk charge will apply 
according to the credit risk of the issuer as set out in paragraphs above.
(c) General Market Risk
General market risk applies to positions in all derivative products in the same manner as for cash 
positions, subject only to an exemption for fully or very closely matched positions in identical 
instruments as defined in paragraphs above. The various categories of instruments should be slotted 
into the maturity ladder and treated according to the rules identified earlier.
Treasury Management.indb 348 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 349 349
Table – Summary of Treatment of Interest Rate Derivatives
Instrument Specific risk charge General Market risk charge
Exchange-traded Future
– Government debt security
– Corporate debt security
– Index on interest rates (e.g., MIBOR)
No
Yes
No
Yes, as two positions
Yes, as two positions
Yes, as two positions
OTC Forward
– Government debt security
– Corporate debt security
– Index on interest rates (e.g., MIBOR)
No
Yes
No
Yes, as two positions
Yes, as two positions
Yes, as two positions
FRAs, Swaps No Yes, as two positions
Forward Foreign Exchange No Yes, as one position in each currency
Options
– Government debt security
– Corporate debt security
– Index on interest rates (e.g., MIBOR)
– FRAs, Swaps
No
Yes
No
No
B. Treatment of Options
1. In recognition of the wide diversity of banks’ activities in options and the difficulties of 
measuring price risk for options, alternative approaches are permissible as under:
• those banks which solely use purchased optionswill be free to use the simplified approach 
described in Section I below;
• those banks which also write options will be expected to use one of the intermediate 
approaches as set out in Section II below.
Unless all their written option positions are hedged by perfectly matched long positions in exactly 
the same options, in which case no capital charge for market risk is required.
2. In the simplified approach, the positions for the options and the associated underlying, cash 
or forward, are not subject to the standardised methodology but rather are “carved-out” and 
subject to separately calculated capital charges that incorporate both general market risk and 
specific risk. The risk numbers thus generated are then added to the capital charges for the 
relevant category, i.e., interest rate related instruments, equities, and foreign exchange as 
described in paragraph 8.3 to 8.5 of the Basel III Capital Regulations. The delta-plus method 
uses the sensitivity parameters or “Greek letters” associated with options to measure their 
market risk and capital requirements. Under this method, the delta-equivalent position of each 
option becomes part of the standardised methodology set out in paragraph 8.3 to 8.5 of the 
Treasury Management.indb 349 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
350 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Basel III Capital Regulations with the delta-equivalent amount subject to the applicable general 
market risk charges. Separate capital charges are then applied to the gamma and Vega risks of 
the option positions. The scenario approach uses simulation techniques to calculate changes 
in the value of an options portfolio for changes in the level and volatility of its associated 
underlyings. Under this approach, the general market risk charge is determined by the scenario 
“grid” (i.e., the specified combination of underlying and volatility changes) that produces 
the largest loss. For the delta-plus method and the scenario approach the specific risk capital 
charges are determined separately by multiplying the delta-equivalent of each option by the 
specific risk weights set out in paragraph 8.3 to 8.4 of the Basel III Capital Regulations.
I. Simplified Approach
3. Banks which handle a limited range of purchased options only will be free to use the simplified 
approach set out in Table A below, for particular trades. As an example of how the calculation 
would work, if a holder of 100 shares currently valued at `10 each holds an equivalent put 
option with a strike price of `11, the capital charge would be: `1,000 × 18 per cent (i.e., 
9 per cent specific plus 9 per cent general market risk) = `180, less the amount the option 
is in the money (`11 – `10) × 100 = `100, i.e., the capital charge would be `80. A similar 
methodology applies for options whose underlying is a foreign currency or an interest rate 
related instrument.
Table A – Simplified approach: capital charges
Position Treatment
Long cash and Long put
Or
Short cash and Long call
The capital charge will be the market value of the underlying security 
multiplied by the sum of specific and general market risk charges 
for the underlying less the amount the option is in the money (if 
any) bounded at zero
Long call
Or
Long put
The capital charge will be the lesser of:
(i) the market value of the underlying security multiplied by 
the sum of specific and general market risk charges for the 
underlying
(ii) the market value of the option
II. Intermediate Approaches
(a) Delta-plus Method
4. Banks which write options will be allowed to include delta-weighted options positions within 
the standardised methodology set out in paragraph 8.3 to 8.5 of this Master Circular. Such 
options should be reported as a position equal to the market value of the underlying multiplied 
by the delta.
However, since delta does not sufficiently cover the risks associated with options positions, banks will 
also be required to measure gamma (which measures the rate of change of delta) and Vega (which 
measures the sensitivity of the value of an option with respect to a change in volatility) sensitivities 
in order to calculate the total capital charge. These sensitivities will be calculated according to an 
Treasury Management.indb 350 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 351 351
approved exchange model or to the bank’s proprietary options pricing model subject to oversight 
by the Reserve Bank of India.
5. Delta-weighted positions with debt securities or interest rates as the underlying will be 
slotted into the interest rate time-bands, as set out in Table 17 of paragraph 8.3 of the Basel 
III Capital Regulations, under the following procedure. A two-legged approach should be 
used as for other derivatives, requiring one entry at the time the underlying contract takes 
effect and a second at the time the underlying contract matures. For instance, a bought call 
option on a June three-month interest-rate future will in April be considered, on the basis of 
its delta-equivalent value, to be a long position with a maturity of five months and a short 
position with a maturity of two months. The written option will be similarly slotted as a long 
position with a maturity of two months and a short position with a maturity of five months. 
Floating rate instruments with caps or floors will be treated as a combination of floating rate 
securities and a series of European-style options. For example, the holder of a three-year 
floating rate bond indexed to six month LIBOR with a cap of 15 per cent will treat it as:
(i) a debt security that reprices in six months; and
(ii) a series of five written call options on a FRA with a reference rate of 15 per cent, each 
with a negative sign at the time the underlying FRA takes effect and a positive sign at 
the time the underlying FRA matures.
6. The capital charge for options with equities as the underlying will also be based on the 
delta-weighted positions which will be incorporated in the measure of market risk described 
in paragraph 8.4 of the Basel III Capital Regulations. For purposes of this calculation each 
national market is to be treated as a separate underlying. The capital charge for options on 
foreign exchange and gold positions will be based on the method set out in paragraph 8.5 of 
the Basel III Capital Regulations. For delta risk, the net delta-based equivalent of the foreign 
currency and gold options will be incorporated into the measurement of the exposure for the 
respective currency (or gold) position.
7. In addition to the above capital charges arising from delta risk, there will be further capital 
charges for gamma and for Vega risk. Banks using the delta-plus method will be required to 
calculate the gamma and Vega for each option position (including hedge positions) separately. 
The capital charges should be calculated in the following way:
(i) for each individual option a “gamma impact” should be calculated according to a Taylor 
series expansion as:
Gamma impact = ½ × Gamma × VU²
where VU = Variation of the underlying of the option.
(ii) VU will be calculated as follows:
• for interest rate options if the underlying is a bond, the price sensitivity should be 
worked out as explained. An equivalent calculation should be carried out where the 
underlying is an interest rate;
• for options on equities and equity indices; which are not permitted at present, the 
market value of the underlying should be multiplied by 9 per cent;
• for foreign exchange and gold options: the market value of the underlying should be 
multiplied by 9 per cent.
Treasury Management.indb 351 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
352 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(iii) For the purpose of this calculation the following positions should be treated as the same 
underlying:
• for interest rates, each time-band as set out in Table 17 of the Basel III Capital 
Regulations;
• for equities and stock indices, each national market;
• for foreign currencies and gold, each currency pair and gold.
(iv) Each option on the same underlying will have a gamma impact that is either positive or 
negative. These individual gamma impacts will be summed, resulting in a net gamma 
impact for each underlying that is either positive or negative. Only those net gamma 
impacts that are negative will be included in the capital calculation.
(v) The total gamma capital charge will be the sum of the absolute value of the net negative 
gamma impacts as calculated above.
(vi) For volatility risk, banks will be required to calculate the capital charges by multiplying 
the sum of the Vegas for all options on the same underlying, as defined above, by a 
proportional shift in volatility of ± 25 per cent.
(vii) The total capital charge for Vega risk will be the sum of the absolute value of the individual capital charges that have been calculated for Vega risk.
(b) Scenario Approach
8. More sophisticated banks will also have the right to base the market risk capital charge for 
options portfolios and associated hedging positions on scenario matrix analysis. This will be 
accomplished by specifying a fixed range of changes in the option portfolio’s risk factors and 
calculating changes in the value of the option portfolio at various points along this “grid”. 
For the purpose of calculating the capital charge, the bank will revalue the option portfolio 
using matrices for simultaneous changes in the option’s underlying rate or price and in the 
volatility of that rate or price. A different matrix will be set up for each individual underlying 
as defined in paragraph 7 above. As an alternative, at the discretion of each national authority, 
banks which are significant traders in options for interest rate options will be permitted to 
base the calculation on a minimum of six sets of time-bands. When using this method, not 
more than three of the time-bands as defined in paragraph 8.3 of this Master Circular should 
be combined into any one set.
9. The options and related hedging positions will be evaluated over a specified range above and 
below the current value of the underlying. The range for interest rates is consistent with the 
assumed changes in yield in Table - 17 of paragraph 8.3 of this Master Circular. Those banks 
using the alternative method for interest rate options set out in paragraph 8 above should 
use, for each set of time-bands, the highest of the assumed changes in yield applicable to the 
group to which the time-bands belong. The other ranges are ±9 per cent for equities and ±9 
per cent for foreign exchange and gold. For all risk categories, at least seven observations 
(including the current observation) should be used to divide the range into equally spaced 
intervals.
10. The second dimension of the matrix entails a change in the volatility of the underlying rate 
or price. A single change in the volatility of the underlying rate or price equal to a shift in 
volatility of + 25 per cent and - 25 per cent is expected to be sufficient in most cases. As 
Treasury Management.indb 352 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 353 353
circumstances warrant, however, the Reserve Bank may choose to require that a different 
change in volatility be used and/or that intermediate points on the grid be calculated.
11. After calculating the matrix, each cell contains the net profit or loss of the option and the 
underlying hedge instrument. The capital charge for each underlying will then be calculated 
as the largest loss contained in the matrix.
12. In drawing up these intermediate approaches it has been sought to cover the major risks 
associated with options. In doing so, it is conscious that so far as specific risk is concerned, 
only the delta-related elements are captured; to capture other risks would necessitate a much 
more complex regime. On the other hand, in other areas the simplifying assumptions used 
have resulted in a relatively conservative treatment of certain options positions.
13. Besides the options risks mentioned above, the RBI is conscious of the other risks also associated 
with options, e.g., rho (rate of change of the value of the option with respect to the interest rate) 
and theta (rate of change of the value of the option with respect to time). While not proposing a 
measurement system for those risks at present, it expects banks undertaking significant options 
business at the very least to monitor such risks closely. Additionally, banks will be permitted 
to incorporate rho into their capital calculations for interest rate risk, if they wish to do so.
ANNEX 3
[cf. para 4.2.4.1]
Criteria for Inclusion of Perpetual Non-cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS) in 
Additional Tier 1 Capital
The PNCPS will be issued by Indian banks, subject to extant legal provisions only in Indian rupees 
and should meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion in Additional Tier 1 
Capital for capital adequacy purposes:
1. Terms of Issue of Instruments
1.1 Paid up Status
The instruments should be issued by the bank (i.e., not by any ‘SPV’, etc., set up by the bank for 
this purpose) and fully paid up.
1.2 Amount
The amount of PNCPS to be raised may be decided by the Board of Directors of banks.
1.3 Limits
While complying with minimum Tier 1 of 7% of risk weighted assets, a bank cannot admit, Perpetual 
Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS) together with Perpetual Debt Instruments (PDI) in 
Additional Tier 1 Capital, more than 1.5% of risk weighted assets. However, once this minimum 
total Tier 1 capital has been complied with, any additional PNCPS and PDI issued by the bank can 
be included in Total Tier 1 capital reported. Excess PNCPS and PDI can be reckoned to comply 
with Tier 2 capital if the latter is less than 2% of RWAs, i.e., while complying with minimum Total 
Capital of 9% of risk weighted assets.
Treasury Management.indb 353 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
354 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.4 Maturity Period
The PNCPS shall be perpetual, i.e., there is no maturity date and there are no step-ups or other 
incentives to redeem.
1.5 Rate of Dividend
The rate of dividend payable to the investors may be either a fixed rate or a floating rate referenced 
to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
1.6 Optionality
PNCPS shall not be issued with a ‘put option’. However, banks may issue the instruments with a 
call option at a particular date subject to following conditions:
(a) The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run for at least five years;
(b) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior approval of RBI(Department of Banking 
Regulation); and
(c) A bank must not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will be exercised. For 
example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument being called, the dividend/coupon 
reset date need not be co-terminus with the call date. Banks may, at their discretion, consider 
having an appropriate gap between dividend/coupon reset date and call date; and
(d) Banks must not exercise a call unless:
(i) They replace the called instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the 
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income 
capacity of the bank; or
(ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the call option is exercised.
The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However, exercise of the calls on 
account of these events is subject to the requirements set out in points (b) to (d) of criterion 1.6., 
RBI will permit the bank to exercise the call only if the RBI is convinced that the bank was not in 
a position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of PNCPS.
To illustrate, if there is a change in tax treatment which makes the capital instrument with tax 
deductible coupons into an instrument with non-tax deductible coupons, then the bank would have 
the option (not obligation) to repurchase the instrument. In such a situation, a bank may be allowed to 
replace the capital instrument with another capital instrument that perhaps does have tax deductible 
coupons. Similarly, if there is a downgrade of the instrument in regulatory classification (e.g., if it is 
decided by the RBI to exclude an instrument from regulatory capital) the bank has the option to call 
the instrument and replace it with an instrument with a better regulatory classification, or a lower 
coupon with the same regulatory classification with prior approval of RBI. However, banks may 
not create an expectation/signal an early redemption/maturity of the regulatory capital instrument.
1.7 Repurchase/Buy-back/Redemption
(i) Principal of the instruments may be repaid (e.g., through repurchase or redemption) only 
with prior approval of RBI and banks should not assume or create market expectations that 
supervisory approval will be given ( this repurchase/buy-back/redemption of the principal is 
Treasury Management.indb 354 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 355 355
in a situation other than in the event of exercise of call option by the bank. One of the major 
differences is that in the case of the former, the option to offer the instrument for repayment 
on announcement of the decision to repurchase/buy-back/redeem the instrument, would lie 
with the investors whereas, in case of the latter, it lies with the bank).
(ii) Banks may repurchase/buy-back/redeem the instruments only if:
(a) They replace such instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the replacement 
of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income capacity of the 
bank; or
(b) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the repurchase/buy-back/redemption.
1.8 Dividend Discretion
(i) The bank must have full discretion at all times to cancel distributions/payments;
(ii) Cancellation of discretionary payments must not be an event of default;
(iii) Banks must have full access to cancelled payments to meet obligations as they fall due;
(iv) Cancellation of distributions/payments must not impose restrictions on the bank except in 
relation to distributions to common stakeholders; and
(v) Dividends must be paid out of distributable items. As regards ‘distributable items’, it is clarified 
that the dividend on perpetual non-cumulative preference shares (PNCPS) will be paid out of 
current year’s profit only;
(vii) The dividend shall not be cumulative. i.e., dividend missed in a year will not be paid in future 
years, even if adequate profit is available and the level of CRAR conforms to the regulatory 
minimum. When dividend is paid at a rate lesser than the prescribed rate, the unpaid amount 
will not be paid in future years, even if adequate profit is available and the level of CRAR 
conforms to the regulatory minimum;
(viii) The instrument cannot have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a dividend that is reset 
periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’ credit standing. For this purpose, any 
reference rate including a broad index which is sensitive to changes to the bank’s own 
creditworthiness and/or to changes in the credit worthiness of the wider banking sector will 
be treated as a credit sensitive reference rate. Banks desirous of offering floating reference rate 
may take prior approval of the RBI (DBR) as regard permissibility of such reference rates;
(ix) In general, it may be in order for banks to have dividend stopper arrangement that stop 
dividend payments on common shares in the event the holders of AT1 instruments are not paid 
dividend/coupon. However, dividend stoppers must not impede the full discretion that bank 
must have at all times to cancel distributions/payments on the Additional Tier 1 instrument, 
nor must they act in a way that could hinder the re-capitalisation of the bank. For example, 
it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional Tier 1 instrument to:
• attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments on this other instrument 
were not also fully discretionary;
• prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond the point in time 
that dividends/coupons on the Additional Tier 1 instrument are resumed;
• impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity (including 
acquisitions/disposals).
Treasury Management.indb 355 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
356 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
A stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the payment of a dividend, such as the 
bank undertaking discretionary share buybacks, if otherwise permitted.
1.9 Treatment in Insolvency
The instrument cannot contribute to liabilities exceeding assets if such a balance sheet test forms 
part of a requirement to prove insolvency under any law or otherwise.
1.10 Loss Absorption Features
PNCPS should have principal loss absorption through either (i) conversion to common shares at an 
objective pre-specified trigger point or (ii) a write-down mechanism which allocates losses to the 
instrument at a pre-specified trigger point. The write-down will have the following effects:
(a) Reduce the claim of the instrument in liquidation;
(b) Reduce the amount re-paid when a call is exercised; and
(c) Partially or fully reduce dividend payments on the instrument.
Various criteria for loss absorption through conversion/write-down/write-off on breach of prespecified trigger and at the point of non-viability are furnished in Annex 16.
1.11 Prohibition on Purchase/Funding of PNCPS
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or significant influence (as 
defined under relevant Accounting Standards) should purchase PNCPS, nor can the bank directly or 
indirectly should fund the purchase of the instrument. Banks should also not grant advances against 
the security of PNCPS issued by them.
1.12 Re-capitalisation
The instrument cannot have any features that hinder re-capitalisation, such as provisions which 
require the issuer to compensate investors if a new instrument is issued at a lower price during a 
specified time frame.
1.13 Reporting of Non-payment of Dividends
All instances of non-payment of dividends should be notified by the issuing banks to the Chief 
General Managers-in-Charge of Department of Banking Regulation and Department of Banking 
Supervision of the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
1.14 Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be
(i) Superior to the claims of investors in equity shares;
(ii) Subordinated to the claims of PDIs, all Tier 2 regulatory capital instruments, depositors and 
general creditors of the bank; and
(iii) is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer nor related entity or other arrangement 
that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
1.15 Investment in Instruments Raised in Indian Rupees by Foreign Entities/NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs and NRIs shall be within an overall limit of 49% and 24% of the issue 
respectively, subject to the investment by each FII not exceeding 10% of the issue, and 
Treasury Management.indb 356 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 357 357
investment by each NRI not exceeding 5% of the issue. Investment by FIIs in these instruments 
shall be outside the ECB limit for rupee-denominated corporate debt, as fixed by Government 
of India from time to time. The overall non-resident holding of Preference Shares and equity 
shares in public sector banks will be subject to the statutory/regulatory limit.
(ii) Banks should comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by SEBI/other regulatory 
authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
1.16 Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the issue and held 
pending finalisation of allotment of the Additional Tier 1 Preference Shares will have to be 
taken into account for the purpose of calculating reserve requirements.
(ii) However, the total amount raised by the bank by issue of PNCPS shall not be reckoned 
as liability for calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve 
requirements and, as such, will not attract CRR/SLR requirements.
1.17 Reporting of Issuances
(i) Banks issuing PNCPS shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-charge, 
Department of Banking Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai giving details of the 
debt raised, including the terms of issue specified at above paragraphs, together with a copy 
of the offer document soon after the issue is completed.
(ii) The issue-wise details of amount raised as PNCPS qualifying for Additional Tier 1 capital by 
the bank from FIIs/NRIs are required to be reported within 30 days of the issue to the Chief 
General Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Foreign Exchange Department, Foreign Investment 
Division, Central Office, Mumbai 400 001 in the proforma given at the end of this Annex. 
The details of the secondary market sales/purchases by FIIs and the NRIs in these instruments 
on the floor of the stock exchange shall be reported by the custodians and designated banks, 
respectively, to the Reserve Bank of India through the soft copy of the LEC Returns, on a 
daily basis, as prescribed in Schedule 2 and 3 of the FEMA Notification No.20 dated 3rd May 
2000, as amended from time to time.
1.18 Investment in Additional Tier 1 Capital Instruments (PNCPS) Issued by Other Banks/FIs
(i) A bank’s investment in PNCPS issued by other banks and financial institutions will be reckoned 
along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital status while computing 
compliance with the overall ceiling of 10% of investing banks’ capital funds as prescribed 
vide circular DBOD.BP.BC.No.3/21.01.002/2004-05 dated July 6, 2004.
(ii) Bank’s investments in PNCPS issued by other banks/financial institutions will attract risk 
weight as provided in paragraphs 5.6 and 8.3.5 of the Master Circular on Basel III Capital 
Regulations, whichever applicable for capital adequacy purposes.
(iii) A bank’s investments in the PNCPS of other banks will be treated as exposure to capital 
market and be reckoned for the purpose of compliance with the prudential ceiling for capital 
market exposure as fixed by RBI.
1.19 Classification in the Balance Sheet
PNCPS will be classified as capital and shown under ‘Schedule I - Capital’ of the Balance sheet.
Treasury Management.indb 357 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
358 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.20 PNCPS to Retail Investors
With a view to enhancing investor education relating to risk characteristics of regulatory capital 
requirements, banks issuing PNCPS to retail investors, subject to approval of their Board, should 
adhere to the following conditions:
(a) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors for having understood 
the features and risks of the instrument may be incorporated in the common application form 
of the proposed issue.
“By making this application, I/We acknowledge that I/We have understood the terms and conditions 
of the Issue of [insert the name of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank] as disclosed 
in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche Document”.
(b) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the investor should 
clearly state in bold letters (with font size 14) how PNCPS is different from common shares. 
In addition, the loss absorbency features of the instrument should be clearly explained and 
the investor’s sign-off for having understood these features and other terms and conditions 
of the instrument should be obtained.
Reporting Format
Details of Investments by FIIs and NRIs in Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares 
qualifying as Additional Tier 1 capital
(a) Name of the bank:
(b) Total issue size/amount raised (in Rupees):
(c) Date of issue:
FIIs NRIs
No of FIIs Amount Raised No of NRIs Amount Raised
in Rupees as a percentage of 
the total issue size
in Rupees as a percentage of 
the total issue size
It is certified that
(i) the aggregate investment by all FIIs does not exceed 49% of the issue size and investment 
by no individual FII exceeds 10% of the issue size.
(ii) It is certified that the aggregate investment by all NRIs does not exceed 24% of the issue size 
and investment by no individual NRI exceeds 5% of the issue size.
Authorised Signatory
Date
Seal of the bank
Treasury Management.indb 358 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 359 359
ANNEX 4
(cf. para 4.2.4)
Criteria for Inclusion of Perpetual Debt Instruments (PDI)
in Additional Tier 1 Capital
The Perpetual Debt Instruments that may be issued as bonds or debentures by Indian banks should 
meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion in Additional Tier 1 Capital for 
capital adequacy purposes:
1. Terms of Issue of Instruments Denominated in Indian Rupees
1.1 Paid-in Status
The instruments should be issued by the bank (i.e., not by any ‘SPV’ etc. set up by the bank for this 
purpose) and fully paid-in.
1.2 Amount
The amount of PDI to be raised may be decided by the Board of Directors of banks.
1.3 Limits
While complying with minimum Tier 1 of 7% of risk weighted assets, a bank cannot admit, Perpetual 
Debt Instruments (PDI) together with Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS) in 
Additional Tier 1 Capital, more than 1.5% of risk weighted assets. However, once this minimum 
total Tier 1 capital has been complied with, any additional PNCPS and PDI issued by the bank can 
be included in Total Tier 1 capital reported. Excess PNCPS and PDI can be reckoned to comply 
with Tier 2 capital if the latter is less than 2% of RWAs, i.e., while complying with minimum Total 
Capital of 9% of risk weighted assets.
1.4 Maturity Period
The PDIs shall be perpetual i.e. there is no maturity date and there are no step-ups or other incentives 
to redeem.
1.5 Rate of Interest
The interest payable to the investors may be either at a fixed rate or at a floating rate referenced to 
a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
1.6 Optionality
PDIs shall not have any ‘put option’. However, banks may issue the instruments with a call option 
at a particular date subject to following conditions:
a. The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run for at least five years;
b. To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior approval of RBI (Department of Banking 
Regulation);
c. A bank must not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will be exercised. For 
example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument being called, the dividend/coupon 
Treasury Management.indb 359 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
360 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
reset date need not be co-terminus with the call date. Banks may, at their discretion, consider 
having an appropriate gap between dividend/coupon reset date and call date; and
d. Banks must not exercise a call unless:
(i) They replace the called instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the 
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income 
capacity of the bank; or
(ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the call option is exercised.
The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However, exercise of the calls 
on account of these events is subject to the requirements set out in points (b) to (d) of criterion 1.6. 
RBI will permit the bank to exercise the call only if the RBI is convinced that the bank was not in 
a position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of PDIs.
To illustrate, if there is a change in tax treatment which makes the capital instrument with tax 
deductible coupons into an instrument with non-tax deductible coupons, then the bank would have 
the option (not obligation) to repurchase the instrument. In such a situation, a bank may be allowed to 
replace the capital instrument with another capital instrument that perhaps does have tax deductible 
coupons. Similarly, if there is a downgrade of the instrument in regulatory classification (e.g., if it is 
decided by the RBI to exclude an instrument from regulatory capital) the bank has the option to call 
the instrument and replace it with an instrument with a better regulatory classification, or a lower 
coupon with the same regulatory classification with prior approval of RBI. However, banks may 
not create an expectation/signal an early redemption/maturity of the regulatory capital instrument.
1.7 Repurchase/Buy-back/Redemption
(i) Principal of the instruments may be repaid (e.g., through repurchase or redemption) only 
with prior approval of RBI and banks should not assume or create market expectations that 
supervisory approval will be given (this repurchase/buy-back/redemption of the principal is 
in a situation other than in the event of exercise of call option by the bank. One of the major 
differences is that in the case of the former, the option to offer the instrument for repayment 
on announcement of the decision to repurchase/buy-back/redeem the instrument, would lie 
with the investors whereas, in case of the latter, it lies with the bank).
(ii) Banks may repurchase/buy-back/redemption only if:
(a) They replace the such instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the 
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income 
capacity of the bank; or
(b) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the repurchase/buy-back/redemption.
1.8 Coupon Discretion
(a) The bank must have full discretion at all times to cancel distributions/payments.
(b) Cancellation of discretionary payments must not be an event of default.
(c) Banks must have full access to cancelled payments to meet obligations as they fall due.
(d) Cancellation of distributions/payments must not impose restrictions on the bank except in 
relation to distributions to common stakeholders.
Treasury Management.indb 360 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 361 361
(e) Coupons must be paid out of distributable items. In this context, coupon may be paid out of 
current year profits. However, if current year profits are not sufficient, i.e., payment of coupon 
is likely to result in losses during the current year, the balance amount of coupon may be paid 
out of revenue reserves (i.e., revenue reserves which are not created for specific purposes by 
a bank) and/or credit balance in profit and loss account, if any.
However, payment of coupons on PDIs from the revenue reserves is subject to the issuing 
bank meeting minimum regulatory requirements for CET1, Tier 1 and Total Capital ratios at all 
times and subject to the requirements of capital buffer frameworks (i.e., capital conservation 
buffer, countercyclical capital buffer and Domestic Systemically Important Banks).
Banks must ensure and indicate in the offer document that they have full discretion at all 
times to cancel distributions/payments in order to meet the eligibility criteria for perpetual 
debt instruments.
(f) The interest shall not be cumulative.
(g) The instrument cannot have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a dividend that is reset 
periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’ credit standing. For this purpose, any 
reference rate including a broad index which is sensitive to changes to the bank’s own 
creditworthiness and/or to changes in the credit worthiness of the wider banking sector will 
be treated as a credit sensitive reference rate. Banks desirous of offering floating reference rate 
may take prior approval of the RBI (DBR) as regard permissibility of such reference rates.
(h) In general, it may be in order for banks to have dividend stopper arrangement that stop 
dividend payments on common shares in the event the holders of AT1 instruments are not paid 
dividend/coupon. However, dividend stoppers must not impede the full discretion that bank 
must have at all times to cancel distributions/payments on the Additional Tier 1 instrument, 
nor must they act in a way that could hinder the re-capitalisation of the bank. For example, 
it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional Tier 1 instrument to:
• attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments on this other instrument 
were not also fully discretionary;
• prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond the point in time 
that dividends/coupons on the Additional Tier 1 instrument are resumed;
• impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity (including 
acquisitions/disposals).
A stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the payment of a dividend, such as the 
bank undertaking discretionary share buybacks, if otherwise permitted.
1.9 Treatment in Insolvency
The instrument cannot contribute to liabilities exceeding assets if such a balance sheet test forms 
part of a requirement to prove insolvency under any law or otherwise.
1.10 Loss Absorption Features
PDIs may be classified as liabilities for accounting purposes (not for the purpose of insolvency as 
indicated in paragraph 1.9 above). In such cases, these instruments must have principal loss absorption 
through either (i) conversion to common shares at an objective pre-specified trigger point or (ii) a 
Treasury Management.indb 361 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
362 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
write-down mechanism which allocates losses to the instrument at a pre-specified trigger point. The 
write-down will have the following effects:
(a) Reduce the claim of the instrument in liquidation;
(b) Reduce the amount re-paid when a call is exercised; and
(c) Partially or fully reduce coupon payments on the instrument.
Various criteria for loss absorption through conversion/write-down/write-off on breach of prespecified trigger and at the point of non-viability are furnished in Annex 16.
1.11 Prohibition on Purchase/Funding of Instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or significant influence 
(as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) should purchase the instrument, nor can the bank 
directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument. Banks should also not grant advances 
against the security of the debt instruments issued by them.
1.12 Re-capitalisation
The instrument cannot have any features that hinder re-capitalisation, such as provisions which 
require the issuer to compensate investors if a new instrument is issued at a lower price during a 
specified time frame.
1.13 Reporting of Non-payment of Coupons
All instances of non-payment of coupon should be notified by the issuing banks to the Chief General 
Managers-in-Charge of Department of Banking Regulation and Department of Banking Supervision 
of the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
1.14 Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be
(i) superior to the claims of investors in equity shares and perpetual non-cumulative preference 
shares;
(ii) subordinated to the claims of depositors, general creditors and subordinated debt of the bank;
(iii) is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer nor related entity or other 
arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the claim vis-à-vis bank 
creditors.
1.15 Investment in Instruments Raised in Indian Rupees by Foreign Entities/NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs in instruments raised in Indian Rupees shall be outside the ECB limit 
for rupee denominated corporate debt, as fixed by the Govt. of India from time to time, for 
investment by FIIs in corporate debt instruments. Investment in these instruments by FIIs 
and NRIs shall be within an overall limit of 49% and 24% of the issue, respectively, subject 
to the investment by each FII not exceeding 10% of the issue and investment by each NRI 
not exceeding 5% of the issue.
(ii) Banks should comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by SEBI/other regulatory 
authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
Treasury Management.indb 362 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 363 363
1.16 Terms of Issue of Instruments Denominated in Foreign Currency
Banks may augment their capital funds through the issue of PDIs in foreign currency without 
seeking the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India, subject to compliance with the requirements 
mentioned below:
(i) Instruments issued in foreign currency should comply with all terms and conditions as 
applicable to the instruments issued in Indian Rupees.
(ii) Not more than 49% of the eligible amount can be issued in foreign currency.
(iii) Instruments issued in foreign currency shall be outside the existing limit for foreign currency 
borrowings by Authorised Dealers, stipulated in terms of Master Circular No. RBI/2006-07/24 
dated July 1, 2006 on Risk Management and Inter-Bank Dealings as updated from time to time.
1.17 Compliance with Reserve Requirements
The total amount raised by a bank through debt instruments shall not be reckoned as liability for 
calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, 
will not attract CRR/SLR requirements.
1.18 Reporting of Issuances
Banks issuing PDIs shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-charge, Department of 
Banking Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai giving details of the debt raised, including 
the terms of issue specified at paragraph 1 above, together with a copy of the offer document soon 
after the issue is completed.
1.19 Investment in Additional Tier 1 Debt Capital Instruments (PDIs) Issued by Other Banks/FIs
(i) A bank’s investment in debt instruments issued by other banks and financial institutions will 
be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital status while 
computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10% for cross holding of capital among 
banks/FIs prescribed vide circular DBOD.BP.BC.No.3/21.01.002/2004-05 dated July 6, 2004 
and also subject to cross holding limits.
(ii) Bank’s investments in debt instruments issued by other banks will attract risk weight for 
capital adequacy purposes, as prescribed in paragraphs 5.6 and 8.3.5 of the Master Circular 
on Basel III Capital Regulations, whichever applicable.
1.20 Classification in the Balance Sheet
The amount raised by way of issue of debt capital instrument may be classified under ‘Schedule 
4 – Borrowings’ in the Balance Sheet.
1.21 Raising of Instruments for Inclusion as Additional Tier 1 Capital by Foreign Banks in India
Foreign banks in India may raise Head Office (HO) borrowings in foreign currency for inclusion as 
Additional Tier 1 capital subject to the same terms and conditions as mentioned in items 1.1 to 1.18 
above for Indian banks. In addition, the following terms and conditions would also be applicable:
(a) Maturity period: If the amount of Additional Tier 1 capital raised as Head Office borrowings 
shall be retained in India on a perpetual basis.
Treasury Management.indb 363 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
364 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(b) Rate of interest: Rate of interest on Additional Tier 1 capital raised as HO borrowings should 
not exceed the on-going market rate. Interest should be paid at half yearly rests.
(c) Withholding tax: Interest payments to the HO will be subject to applicable withholding 
tax.
(d) Documentation: The foreign bank raising Additional Tier 1 capital as HO borrowings should 
obtain a letter from its HO agreeing to give the loan for supplementing the capital base for 
the Indian operations of the foreign bank. The loan documentation should confirm that the 
loan given by HO shall be eligible for the same level of seniority of claim as the investors 
in debt capital instruments issued by Indian banks. The loan agreement will be governed by 
and construed in accordance with the Indian law.
(e) Disclosure: The total eligible amount of HO borrowings shall be disclosed in the balance 
sheet under the head ‘Additional Tier 1 capital raised in the form of Head Office borrowings 
in foreign currency’.
(f) Hedging: The total eligible amount of HO borrowing should remain fully swapped in Indian 
Rupees with the bank at all times.
(g) Reporting and certification: Details regarding the total amount of Additional Tier 1 capital 
raised as HO borrowings, along with a certification to the effect that the borrowing is in 
accordance with these guidelines, should be advised to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge 
of the Department of Banking Regulation (International Banking Division), Department of 
External Investments and Operations and Financial Markets Regulation Department, Reserve 
Bank of India, Mumbai.
1.22 Perpetual Debt Instruments to Retail Investors
With a view to enhancing investor education relating to risk characteristics of regulatory capital 
requirements, banks issuing Perpetual Debt Instruments to retail investors, subject to approval of 
their Board, should adhere to the following conditions:
(a) For floating rate instruments, banks should not use its Fixed Deposit rate as benchmark.
(b) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors for having understood 
the features and risks of the instrument may be incorporated in the common application form 
of the proposed debt issue.
“By making this application, I/We acknowledge that I/We have understood the terms and conditions 
of the Issue of [insert the name of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank ] as 
disclosed in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche Document”.
(c) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the investor 
should clearly state in bold letters how a Perpetual Debt Instrument is different from 
fixed deposit particularly that it is not covered by deposit insurance. In addition, the loss 
absorbency features of the instrument should be clearly explained and the investor’s signoff for having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the instrument 
should be obtained.
Treasury Management.indb 364 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 365 365
ANNEX 5
(cf. para 4.2.5)
Criteria for Inclusion of Debt Capital Instruments as Tier 2 Capital
The Tier 2 debt capital instruments that may be issued as bonds/debentures by Indian banks should 
meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion as Tier 2 Capital for capital adequacy 
purposes:
1. Terms of Issue of Instruments Denominated in Indian Rupees
1.1 Paid-in Status
The instruments should be issued by the bank (i.e. not by any ‘SPV’ etc. set up by the bank for this 
purpose) and fully paid-in.
1.2 Amount
The amount of these debt instruments to be raised may be decided by the Board of Directors of banks.
1.3 Maturity Period
The debt instruments should have a minimum maturity of five years and there are no step-ups or 
other incentives to redeem.
1.4 Discount
The debt instruments shall be subjected to a progressive discount for capital adequacy purposes. As 
they approach maturity these instruments should be subjected to progressive discount as indicated 
in the table below for being eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital.
Remaining Maturity of Instruments Rate of Discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
1.5 Rate of Interest
(i) The interest payable to the investors may be either at a fixed rate or at a floating rate referenced 
to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(ii) The instrument cannot have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a coupon that is reset 
periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’ credit standing. Banks desirous of offering 
floating reference rate may take prior approval of the RBI (DBR) as regard permissibility of 
such reference rates.
1.6 Optionality
The debt instruments shall not have any ‘put option’. However, it may be callable at the initiative 
of the issuer only after a minimum of five years:
Treasury Management.indb 365 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
366 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(a) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior approval of RBI (Department of Banking 
Regulation); and
(b) A bank must not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will be exercised. For 
example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument being called, the dividend/coupon 
reset date need not be co-terminus with the call date. Banks may, at their discretion, consider 
having an appropriate gap between dividend/coupon reset date and call date; and
(c) Banks must not exercise a call unless:
(i) They replace the called instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the 
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income 
capacity of the bank; or
(ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the call option is exercised.
The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However, exercise of the calls 
on account of these events is subject to the requirements set out in points (a) to (c) of criterion 1.6. 
RBI will permit the bank to exercise the call only if the RBI is convinced that the bank was not in a 
position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of these instruments as explained in case 
of Additional Tier 1 instruments.
1.7 Treatment in Bankruptcy/Liquidation
The investor must have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future scheduled payments (coupon 
or principal) except in bankruptcy and liquidation.
1.8 Prohibition on Purchase/Funding of Instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or significant influence 
(as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) should purchase the instrument, nor can the bank 
directly or indirectly should fund the purchase of the instrument. Banks should also not grant advances 
against the security of the debt instruments issued by them.
1.9 Reporting of Non-payment of Coupons
All instances of non-payment of coupon should be notified by the issuing banks to the Chief General 
Managers-in-Charge of Department of Banking Regulation and Department of Banking Supervision 
of the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
1.10 Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be
(i) senior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 capital;
(ii) subordinate to the claims of all depositors and general creditors of the bank; and
(iii) is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity or other arrangement 
that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
1.11 Investment in Instruments Raised in Indian Rupees by Foreign Entities/NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs in Tier 2 instruments raised in Indian Rupees shall be outside the limit 
for investment in corporate debt instruments, as fixed by the Govt. of India from time to 
Treasury Management.indb 366 6/19/2018 6:24:13 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 367 367
time. However, investment by FIIs in these instruments will be subject to a separate ceiling 
of USD 500 million. In addition, NRIs shall also be eligible to invest in these instruments as 
per existing policy.
(ii) Banks should comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by SEBI/other regulatory 
authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
1.12 Terms of Issue of Tier 2 Debt Capital Instruments in Foreign Currency
Banks may issue Tier 2 Debt Instruments in Foreign Currency without seeking the prior approval of 
the Reserve Bank of India, subject to compliance with the requirements mentioned below:
(i) Tier 2 Instruments issued in foreign currency should comply with all terms and conditions 
applicable to instruments issued in Indian Rupees.
(ii) The total outstanding amount of Tier 2 Instruments in foreign currency shall not exceed 25% 
of the unimpaired Tier 1 capital. This eligible amount will be computed with reference to 
the amount of Tier 1 capital as on March 31 of the previous financial year, after deduction of 
goodwill and other intangible assets but before the deduction of investments, as per paragraph 
4.4.9 of the Master Circular on Basel III capital regulations.
(iii) This will be in addition to the existing limit for foreign currency borrowings by Authorised 
Dealers stipulated in terms of Master Circular No. 14/2010-11 dated July 1, 2010 on Risk 
Management and Inter-Bank Dealings as updated from time to time.
1.13 Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the issue and held 
pending finalisation of allotment of the Tier 2 Capital instruments will have to be taken into 
account for the purpose of calculating reserve requirements.
(ii) The total amount raised by a bank through Tier 2 instruments shall be reckoned as liability 
for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve requirements 
and, as such, will attract CRR/SLR requirements.
1.14 Reporting of Issuances
Banks issuing debt instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-charge, 
Department of Banking Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai giving details of the debt raised, 
including the terms of issue specified at para 1 above, together with a copy of the offer document 
soon after the issue is completed.
1.15 Investment in Tier 2 Debt Capital Instruments Issued by Other Banks/FIs
(i) A bank’s investment in Tier 2 debt instruments issued by other banks and financial institutions 
will be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital status 
while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10% for cross holding of capital 
among banks/FIs prescribed vide circular DBOD.BP.BC.No.3/21.01.002/2004-05 dated 6th 
July 2004 and also subject to cross holding limits.
(ii) Bank’s investments in Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks/financial institutions will 
attract risk weight as per paragraphs 5.6 and 8.3.5 of the Master Circular on Basel III Capital 
Regulations, whichever applicable for capital adequacy purposes.
Treasury Management.indb 367 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
368 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.16 Classification in the Balance Sheet
The amount raised by way of issue of Tier 2 debt capital instrument may be classified under ‘Schedule 
4 – Borrowings’ in the Balance Sheet.
1.17 Debt Capital Instruments to Retail Investors
With a view to enhancing investor education relating to risk characteristics of regulatory capital 
requirements, banks issuing subordinated debt to retail investors, subject to approval of their Board, 
should adhere to the following conditions:
(a) For floating rate instruments, banks should not use its Fixed Deposit rate as benchmark.
(b) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors for having understood 
the features and risks of the instrument may be incorporated in the common application form 
of the proposed debt issue.
“By making this application, I/We acknowledge that I/We have understood the terms and conditions 
of the Issue of [insert the name of the instruments being issued ] of [Name of The Bank] as 
disclosed in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche Document”.
(c) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the investor should 
clearly state in bold letters (with font size 14) how a subordinated bond is different from 
fixed deposit particularly that it is not covered by deposit insurance. In addition, the loss 
absorbency features of the instrument should be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-off 
for having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the instrument should 
be obtained.
1.18 Raising of Instruments for Inclusion as Tier 2 Capital by Foreign Banks in India
Foreign banks in India may raise Head Office (HO) borrowings in foreign currency for inclusion as 
Tier 2 capital subject to the same terms and conditions as mentioned in items 1.1 to 1.17 above for 
Indian banks. In addition, the following terms and conditions would also be applicable:
(a) Maturity period: If the amount of Tier 2 debt capital raised as HO borrowings is in tranches, 
each tranche shall be retained in India for a minimum period of five years.
(b) Rate of interest: Rate of interest on Tier 2 capital raised as HO borrowings should not exceed 
the on-going market rate. Interest should be paid at half yearly rests.
(c) Withholding tax: Interest payments to the HO will be subject to applicable withholding tax.
(d) Documentation: The foreign bank raising Tier 2 debt capital as HO borrowings should obtain 
a letter from its HO agreeing to give the loan for supplementing the capital base for the Indian 
operations of the foreign bank. The loan documentation should confirm that the loan given 
by HO shall be eligible for the same level of seniority of claim as the investors in debt capital 
instruments issued by Indian banks. The loan agreement will be governed by and construed 
in accordance with the Indian law.
(e) Disclosure: The total eligible amount of HO borrowings shall be disclosed in the balance sheet 
under the head ‘Tier 2 debt capital raised in the form of Head Office borrowings in foreign 
currency’.
(f) Hedging: The total eligible amount of HO borrowing should remain fully swapped in Indian 
Rupees with the bank at all times.
Appendices.indd 368 6/21/2018 3:15:48 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 369 369
(g) Reporting and certification: Details regarding the total amount of Tier 2 debt capital raised 
as HO borrowings, along with a certification to the effect that the borrowing is in accordance 
with these guidelines, should be advised to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of the 
Department of Banking Regulation (International Banking Division), Department of External 
Investments and Operations and Financial Markets Regulation Department, Reserve Bank of 
India, Mumbai.
(h) Features: The HO borrowings should be fully paid up, i.e. the entire borrowing or each tranche 
of the borrowing should be available in full to the branch in India. It should be unsecured, 
subordinated to the claims of other creditors of the foreign bank in India, free of restrictive 
clauses and should not be redeemable at the instance of the HO.
(i) Rate of discount: The HO borrowings will be subjected to progressive discount as they 
approach maturity at the rates indicated below:
Remaining maturity of borrowing Rate of discount (%)
More than 5 years Not Applicable
(the entire amount can be included as 
subordinated debt in Tier 2 capital)
More than 4 years and less than 5 years 20
More than 3 years and less than 4 years 40
More than 2 years and less than 3 years 60
More than 1 year and less than 2 years 80
Less than 1 year 100
(No amount can be treated as subordinated 
debt for Tier 2 capital)
1.19 Requirements
The total amount of HO borrowings is to be reckoned as liability for the calculation of net demand 
and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, will attract CRR/SLR 
requirements.
1.20 Hedging
The entire amount of HO borrowing should remain fully swapped with banks at all times. The swap 
should be in Indian rupees.
1.21 Reporting and Certification
Such borrowings done in compliance with the guidelines set out above would not require prior 
approval of Reserve Bank of India. However, information regarding the total amount of borrowing 
raised from Head Office under this Annex, along with a certification to the effect that the borrowing is 
as per the guidelines, should be advised to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of the Department 
of Banking Regulation (International Banking Division), Department of External Investments and 
Operations and Financial Markets Regulation Department, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
Treasury Management.indb 369 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
370 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
ANNEX 6
(cf. para 4.2.5.1.A(iii)
Criteria for Inclusion of Perpetual Cumulative Preference Shares (PCPS)/
Redeemable Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (RNCPS)/Redeemable Cumulative 
Preference Shares (RCPS) as Part of Tier 2 Capital
1 Terms of Issue of Instruments
The criteria relating to loss absorbency through conversion/write-down/write-off at the point of 
non-viability are furnished in Annex 16.
1.1 Paid-in Status
The instruments should be issued by the bank (i.e. not by any ‘SPV’ etc. set up by the bank for this 
purpose) and fully paid-in.
1.2 Amount
The amount to be raised may be decided by the Board of Directors of banks.
1.3 Maturity Period
These instruments could be either perpetual (PCPS) or dated (RNCPS and RCPS) instruments 
with a fixed maturity of minimum five years and there should be no step-ups or other incentives to 
redeem. The perpetual instruments shall be cumulative. The dated instruments could be cumulative 
or non-cumulative.
1.4 Amortisation
The Redeemable Preference Shares (both cumulative and non-cumulative) shall be subjected to a 
progressive discount for capital adequacy purposes over the last five years of their tenor, as they 
approach maturity as indicated in the table below for being eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital.
Remaining Maturity of Instruments Rate of Discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
1.5 Coupon
The coupon payable to the investors may be either at a fixed rate or at a floating rate referenced to a 
market determined rupee interest benchmark rate. Banks desirous of offering floating reference rate 
may take prior approval of the RBI (DBR) as regard permissibility of such reference rates.
1.6 Optionality
These instruments shall not be issued with a ‘put option’. However, banks may issue the instruments 
with a call option at a particular date subject to following conditions:
Treasury Management.indb 370 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 371 371
(a) The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run for at least five 
years; and
(b) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior approval of RBI (Department of Banking 
Regulation); and
(c) A bank must not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will be exercised. For 
example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument being called, the dividend/coupon 
reset date need not be co-terminus with the call date. Banks may, at their discretion, consider 
having an appropriate gap between dividend/coupon reset date and call date; and
(d) Banks must not exercise a call unless:
(i) They replace the called instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the 
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for the income 
capacity of the bank; or
(ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum capital 
requirements after the call option is exercised.
The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However, exercise of the calls 
on account of these events is subject to the requirements set out in points (b) to (d) of criterion 1.6. 
RBI will permit the bank to exercise the call only if the RBI is convinced that the bank was not in a 
position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of these instruments as explained in case 
of Additional Tier 1 instruments.
1.7 Treatment in Bankruptcy/Liquidation
The investor must have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future scheduled payments (coupon 
or principal) except in bankruptcy and liquidation.
1.8 Prohibition on Purchase/Funding
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or significant influence 
(as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) should purchase these instruments, nor can the 
bank directly or indirectly should fund the purchase of the instrument. Banks should also not grant 
advances against the security of these instruments issued by them.
1.9 Reporting of Non-payment of Coupon
All instances of non-payment of coupon should be notified by the issuing banks to the Chief General 
Managers-in-Charge of Department of Banking Regulation and Department of Banking Supervision 
of the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
1.10 Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be:
(i) senior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 capital;
(ii) subordinate to the claims of all depositors and general creditors of the bank; and
(iii) is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity or other arrangement 
that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
Treasury Management.indb 371 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
372 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
1.11 Investment in Instruments Raised in Indian Rupees by Foreign Entities/NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs and NRIs shall be within an overall limit of 49% and 24% of the issue 
respectively, subject to the investment by each FII not exceeding 10% of the issue and 
investment by each NRI not exceeding 5% of the issue. Investment by FIIs in these instruments 
shall be outside the ECB limit for rupee denominated corporate debt as fixed by Government 
of India from time to time. However, investment by FIIs in these instruments will be subject 
to separate ceiling of USD 500 million. The overall non-resident holding of Preference Shares 
and equity shares in public sector banks will be subject to the statutory/regulatory limit.
(ii) Banks should comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by SEBI/other regulatory 
authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
1.12 Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(a) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the issue and held 
pending finalization of allotment of these instruments will have to be taken into account for 
the purpose of calculating reserve requirements.
(b) The total amount raised by a bank through the issue of these instruments shall be reckoned 
as liability for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve 
requirements and, as such, will attract CRR/SLR requirements.
1.13 Reporting of Issuances
Banks issuing these instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-charge, 
Department of Banking Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai giving details of the debt raised, 
including the terms of issue specified in para 1 above (1.1 to 1.14), together with a copy of the offer 
document soon after the issue is completed.
1.14 Investment in these Instruments Issued by other Banks/FIs
(i) A bank’s investment in these instruments issued by other banks and financial institutions will 
be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital status while 
computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10% of investing banks’ total capital funds 
prescribed vide circular DBOD.BP.BC.No.3/21.01.002/2004-05 dated July 6, 2004 and also 
subject to cross holding limits.
(ii) Bank’s investments in these instruments issued by other banks/financial institutions will attract 
risk weight for capital adequacy purposes as provided vide paragraphs 5.6 and 8.3.5 of the 
Master Circular on Basel III Capital Regulations, whichever applicable.
1.15 Classification in the Balance Sheet
These instruments will be classified as ‘Borrowings’ under Schedule 4 of the Balance Sheet under 
item No. I (i.e., Borrowings).
1.16 PCPS/RNCPS/RCPS to Retail Investors
With a view to enhancing investor education relating to risk characteristics of regulatory capital 
requirements, banks issuing PCPS/RNCPS/RCPS to retail investors, subject to approval of their 
Board, should adhere to the following conditions:
Treasury Management.indb 372 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 373 373
(a) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors for having understood 
the features and risks of the instrument may be incorporated in the common application form 
of the proposed issue.
 “By making this application, I/We acknowledge that I/We have understood the terms and 
conditions of the Issue of [insert the name of the instruments being issued] of [Name 
of The Bank] as disclosed in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche 
Document”.
(b) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the investor should 
clearly state in bold letters how a PCPS/RNCPS/RCPS is different from common shares/
fixed deposit particularly that it is not covered by deposit insurance. In addition, the loss 
absorbency features of the instrument should be clearly explained and the investor’s signoff for having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the instrument 
should be obtained.
B. Master Circular – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy – Basel I Framework dated 
1st July, 2015
2.4 Capital Charge for Subsidiaries
2.4.1 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has proposed that the New Capital Adequacy 
Framework should be extended to include, on a consolidated basis, holding companies that are 
parents of banking groups. On prudential considerations, it is necessary to adopt best practices in 
line with international standards, while duly reflecting local conditions.
2.4.2 Accordingly, banks may voluntarily build-in the risk weighted components of their subsidiaries 
into their own balance sheet on notional basis, at par with the risk weights applicable to the bank’s 
own assets. Banks should earmark additional capital in their books over a period of time so as to 
obviate the possibility of impairment to their net worth when switchover to unified balance sheet 
for the group as a whole is adopted after sometime. Thus banks were asked to provide additional 
capital in their books in phases, beginning from the year ended March 2001.
2.4.3 A consolidated bank defined as a group of entities which include a licensed bank should 
maintain a minimum Capital to Risk-weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) as applicable to the parent 
bank on an ongoing basis. While computing capital funds, parent bank may consider the following 
points:
i. Banks are required to maintain a minimum capital to risk weighted assets ratio of 9%. Non-bank 
subsidiaries are required to maintain the capital adequacy ratio prescribed by their respective 
regulators. In case of any shortfall in the capital adequacy ratio of any of the subsidiaries, 
the parent should maintain capital in addition to its own regulatory requirements to cover the 
shortfall.
ii. Risks inherent in deconsolidated entities (i.e., entities which are not consolidated in the 
Consolidated Prudential Reports) in the group need to be assessed and any shortfall in the 
regulatory capital in the deconsolidated entities should be deducted (in equal proportion from 
Tier I and Tier II capital) from the consolidated bank’s capital in the proportion of its equity 
stake in the entity.
Treasury Management.indb 373 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
374 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
2.5 Procedure for computation of CRAR
2.5.1 While calculating the aggregate of funded and non-funded exposure of a borrower for the 
purpose of assignment of risk weight, banks may ‘net-off’ against the total outstanding exposure 
of the borrower –
(a) advances collateralised by cash margins or deposits;
(b) credit balances in current or other accounts which are not earmarked for specific purposes 
and free from any lien;
(c) in respect of any assets where provisions for depreciation or for bad debts have been made;
(d) claims received from DICGC/ECGC and kept in a separate account pending adjustment; and
(e) subsidies received against advances in respect of Government sponsored schemes and kept 
in a separate account.
2.5.2 After applying the conversion factor as indicated in Annex 9, the adjusted off Balance Sheet 
value shall again be multiplied by the risk weight attributable to the relevant counter-party as specified.
2.5.3 Computation of CRAR for Foreign Exchange Contracts and Gold: Foreign exchange 
contracts include- Cross currency interest rate swaps, Forward foreign exchange contracts, Currency 
futures, Currency options purchased, and other contracts of a similar nature.
Foreign exchange contracts with an original maturity of 14 calendar days or less, irrespective of the 
counterparty, may be assigned “zero” risk weight as per international practice.
As in the case of other off-Balance Sheet items, a two stage calculation prescribed below shall be applied:
(a) Step 1 – The notional principal amount of each instrument is multiplied by the conversion 
factor given below:
Residual Maturity Conversion Factor
One year or less 2%
Over one year to five years 10%
Over five years 15%
(b) Step 2 – The adjusted value thus obtained shall be multiplied by the risk weight age allotted 
to the relevant counter-party as given in Step 2 in section D of Annex 9.
2.5.4 Computation of CRAR for Interest Rate related Contracts:
Interest rate contracts include the Single currency interest rate swaps, Basis swaps, Forward rate 
agreements, Interest rate futures, Interest rate options purchased and other contracts of a similar nature. 
As in the case of other off-Balance Sheet items, a two stage calculation prescribed below shall be applied:
(a) Step 1 – The notional principal amount of each instrument is multiplied by the percentages 
given below:
Residual Maturity Conversion Factor
One year or less 0.5%
Over one year to five years 1.0%
Over five years 3.0%
Treasury Management.indb 374 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 375 375
(b) Step 2 – The adjusted value thus obtained shall be multiplied by the risk weightage allotted 
to the relevant counter-party as given in Step 2 in Section I.D. of Annex 9.
2.5.5 Aggregation of Capital Charge for Market Risks
The capital charges for specific risk and general market risk are to be computed separately before 
aggregation. For computing the total capital charge for market risks, the calculations may be plotted 
in the proforma as depicted in Table 2 below.
Table-2: Total Capital Charge for Market Risk
(` in crore)
Risk Category Capital charge
I. Interest Rate (a+b)
a. General market risk
• Net position (parallel shift)
• Horizontal disallowance (curvature)
• Vertical disallowance (basis)
• Options
b. Specific risk
II. Equity (a+b)
a. General market risk
b. Specific risk
III. Foreign Exchange & Gold
IV. Total capital charge for market risks (I+II+III)
2.5.6 Calculation of total risk-weighted assets and capital ratio: Following steps may be followed 
for calculation of total risk weighted assets and capital ratio:
2.5.6.1 Arrive at the risk weighted assets for credit risk in the banking book and for counterparty 
credit risk on all OTC derivatives.
2.5.6.2 Convert the capital charge for market risk to notional risk weighted assets by multiplying the 
capital charge arrived at as above in Proforma by 100 ÷ 9 [the present requirement of CRAR is 9% 
and hence notional risk weighted assets are arrived at by multiplying the capital charge by (100 ÷ 9)].
2.5.6.3 Add the risk-weighted assets for credit risk as at 2.5.6.1 above and notional risk-weighted 
assets of trading book as at 2.5.6.2 above to arrive at total risk weighted assets for the bank.
2.5.6.4 Compute capital ratio on the basis of regulatory capital maintained and risk-weighted assets.
2.5.7 Computation of Capital available for Market Risk:
Capital required for supporting credit risk should be deducted from total capital funds to arrive at 
capital available for supporting market risk as illustrated in Table 3 below.
Treasury Management.indb 375 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
376 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Table-3: Computation of Capital for Market Risk
(` in crore)
1 Capital funds
Tier I capital ----------------------------
Tier II capital ---------------------------
55
50
105
2 Total risk weighted assets
RWA for credit risk ------------------
RWA for market risk -----------------
1000
140
1140
3 Total CRAR 9.21
4 Minimum capital required to support credit risk (1000*9%)
Tier I – 45 (@ 4.5% of 1000) --------
Tier II – 45 (@ 4.5% of 1000) --------
45
45
90
5 Capital available to support market risk (105 – 90)
Tier I – (55 – 45) ---------------------
Tier II – (50 – 45) ---------------------
10
5
15
2.5.8 Worked out Examples: Two examples for computing capital charge for market risk and credit 
risk are given in Annex 10.
ANNEX 9
Risk Weights for Calculation of Capital Charge for Credit Risk
I. Domestic Operations
A. Funded Risk Assets
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
I Balances
1. Cash, balances with RBI 0
2. i. Balances in current account with other banks 20
ii. Claims on Bank 20
II Investments (applicable to securities held in HTM)
1. Investments in Government Securities. 0
Treasury Management.indb 376 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 377 377
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
2. Investments in other approved securities guaranteed by Central/
State Government.
Note:
If the repayment of principal/interest in respect of State Government 
Guaranteed securities included in item 2, 4 and 6 has remained in 
default, for a period of more than 90 days banks should assign 100 
per cent risk weight. However, the banks need to assign 100 per cent 
risk weight only on those State Government guaranteed securities 
issued by the defaulting entities and not on all the securities issued 
or guaranteed by that State Government.
0
3. Investments in other securities where payment of interest and 
repayment of principal are guaranteed by Central Govt. (This will 
include investments in Indira/Kisan Vikas Patra (IVP/KVP) and 
investments in Bonds and Debentures where payment of interest 
and principal is guaranteed by Central Govt.)
0
4. Investments in other securities where payment of interest and 
repayment of principal are guaranteed by State Governments.
0
5. Investments in other approved securities where payment of interest 
and repayment of principal are not guaranteed by Central/State 
Govt.
20
6. Investments in Government guaranteed securities of Government 
Undertakings which do not form part of the approved market 
borrowing programme.
20
7. Claims on commercial banks. 20
8. Investments in bonds issued by other banks 20
9. Investments in securities which are guaranteed by banks as to 
payment of interest and repayment of principal.
20
10. Investments in subordinated debt instruments and bonds issued by 
other banks or Public Financial Institutions for their Tier II capital.
100
11. Deposits placed with SIDBI/NABARD/NHB in lieu of shortfall in 
lending to priority sector.
100
12. Investment in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) of residential 
assets of Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) which are recognised 
and supervised by National Housing Bank (subject to satisfying 
terms & conditions furnished in Annex 10.2).
50
13. Investment in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) which are backed 
by housing loan qualifying for 50% risk weight.
50
Treasury Management.indb 377 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
378 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
14. Investment in securitised paper pertaining to an infrastructure 
facility. (subject to satisfying terms & conditions given in Annex 
10.3).
50
15. Investments in debentures/bonds/security receipts/Pass Through 
Certificates issued by Securitisation Company/SPVs/Reconstruction 
Company and held by banks as investment
100
16. All other investments including investments in securities issued 
by PFIs.
100
Note: Equity investments in subsidiaries, intangible assets and 
losses deducted from Tier I capital should be assigned zero weight
17. Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, debentures 
and units of equity oriented mutual funds including those exempted 
from Capital Market Exposure
125
18. Investment in Mortgaged Backed Securities and other securitised 
exposures to Commercial Real Estate
150
19. Investments in Venture Capital Funds 150
20. Investments in Securities issued b y SPVs (in respect of securitisation 
of standard assets) underwritten and devolved on originator banks 
during the stipulated period of three months
100
21. Investments in Securities issued b y SPVs in respect of securitisation 
of standard asset underwritten and devolved on bank as third party 
service provider during the stipulated period of three months
100
22. NPA Investment purchased from other banks 100
23. Investments in instruments issued by NBFC-ND-SI 100
III Loans & Advances including bills purchased and discounted and 
other credit facilities
1. Loans guaranteed by Govt. of India
Note:
The amount outstanding in the account styled as “Amount receivable 
from Government of India under Agricultural debt Waiver Scheme 
2008” shall be treated as a claim on the Government of India and 
would attract zero risk weight for the purpose of capital adequacy 
norms. However, the amount outstanding in the accounts covered by 
the Debt Relief Scheme shall be treated as a claim on the borrowers 
and risk weighted as per the extant norms.
0
Treasury Management.indb 378 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 379 379
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
2. Loans guaranteed by State Govts.
Note:
If the loans guaranteed by State Govts. have remained in default 
for a period of more than 90 days a risk weight of 100 percent 
should be assigned.
0
3. Loans granted to public sector undertakings of Govt. of India 100
4. Loans granted to public sector undertakings of State Govts. 100
5.(i)
(ii)
For the purpose of credit exposure, bills purchased/discounted/
negotiated under LC (where payment to the beneficiary is not 
under reserve) is treated as an exposure on the LC issuing bank 
and assigned risk weight as is normally applicable to inter-bank 
exposures.
Bills negotiated under LCs ‘under reserve’, bills purchased/
discounted/negotiated without LCs, will be reckoned as exposure 
on the borrower constituent. Accordingly, the exposure will attract 
a risk weight appropriate to the borrower.
(i) Govt.
(ii) Banks
(iii) Others
20
0
20
100
6. Others including PFIs 100
7. Leased assets 100
8. Advances covered by DICGC/ECGC
Note: The risk weight of 50% should be limited to the amount 
guaranteed and not the entire outstanding balance in the accounts. 
In other words, the outstandings in excess of the amount guaranteed, 
will carry 100% risk weight.
50
9. Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE) Advances Guaranteed by Credit 
Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) 
up to the guaranteed portion.
Note: Banks may assign zero risk weight for the guaranteed portion. 
The balance outstanding in excess of the guaranteed portion would 
attract a risk-weight as appropriate to the counter-party. Two 
illustrative examples are given in Annex 10.1.
0
Treasury Management.indb 379 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
380 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
10. Insurance cover under Business Credit Shield, the product of New 
India Assurance Company Ltd. (Subject to Conditions given in 
Annex 10.4)
Note: The risk weight of 50% should be limited to the amount 
guaranteed and not the entire outstanding balance in the accounts. 
In other words, the outstanding in excess of the amount guaranteed, 
will carry 100% risk weight.
50
11. Advances against term deposits, Life policies, NSCs, IVPs and 
KVPs where adequate margin is available.
0
12. Loans and Advances granted to staff of banks which are fully 
covered by superannuation benefits and mortgage of flat/house.
20
13. Category of Loan** LTV Ratio13 (%)
(a) Individual Housing Loans 90 50
(i) Up to `20 lakh 80 50
(ii) Above `20 lakh and up to `75 lakh 75 75
(iii) Above `75 lakh NA 75
(b) Commercial Real Estate-Residential 
Housing (CRE-RH)
NA 100
Restructured housing loans should be risk weighted with an additional risk weight of 
25 per cent to the risk weights prescribed above
14. Housing loans guaranteed by Credit Risk Guarantee Fund Trust for 
Low Income Housing (CRGFTLIH) up to the guaranteed portion.
Note: Banks may assign zero risk weight for the guaranteed portion. 
The balance outstanding in excess of the guaranteed portion would 
attract a risk-weight as appropriate to the counter- party.
0
15. Consumer credit including personal loans and credit cards 125
16. Educational Loans 100
17. Loans up to `1 lakh against gold and silver ornaments 50
18. Takeout Finance
(i) Unconditional takeover (in the books of lending institution)
(a) Where full credit risk is assumed by the taking over 
institution
(b) Where only partial credit risk is assumed by taking over 
institution
(i) The amount to be taken over
(ii) The amount not to be taken over
(iii) Conditional take-over (in the books of lending and Taking 
over institution)
20
20
100
100
Treasury Management.indb 380 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 381 381
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
19. Capital Market Exposures (CME) including those exempted from 
CME Norms
125
20. Fund based exposures to commercial real estate*
Fund Based Exposure to Commercial Real Estate-Residential 
Housing (CRE-RH)@
100
75
21. Funded liquidity facility for securitisation of standard asset 
transactions
100
22. NPA purchased from other banks 100
23. Loans & Advances NBFC-ND-SI (other than Asset Finance 
Companies (AFCs))&
100
24. All unrated claims on corporate, long term as well as short term, 
regardless of the amount of the claim
100
IV Other Assets
1. Premises, furniture and fixtures 100
2. Income tax deducted at source (net of provision) 0
Advance tax paid (net of provision) 0
Interest due on Government securities 0
Accrued interest on CRR balances and claims on RBI on account 
of Government transactions (net of claims of Government/RBI on 
banks on account of such transactions)
0
All other assets # 100
#:
(i)   The exposures to CCPs on account of derivatives trading and securities financing transactions 
(e.g., CBLOs, Repos) outstanding against them, will be assigned zero exposure value for 
counterparty credit risk, as it is presumed that the CCPs’ exposures to their counterparties are fully 
collateralised on a daily basis, thereby providing protection for the CCP’s credit risk exposures;
(ii)  The deposits/collaterals kept by banks with the CCPs will attract risk weights appropriate to the 
nature of the CCP. In the case of CCIL, the risk weight will be 20 per cent and for other CCPs, it will 
be according to the ratings assigned to these entities as per the New Capital Adequacy Framework.
&: As regards claims on AFCs, there is no change in the risk weights, which would continue to be 
governed by the credit rating of the AFC, except the claims that attract a risk weight of 150 per cent 
under the New Capital Adequacy Framework, which shall be reduced to a level of 100 per cent.
*: It is possible for an exposure to get classified simultaneously into more than one category, as 
different classifications are driven by different considerations. In such cases, the exposure would be 
reckoned for regulatory/prudential exposure limit, if any, fixed by RBI or by the bank itself, for all 
the categories to which the exposure is assigned. For the purpose of capital adequacy, the largest of 
the risk weights applicable among all the categories would be applicable for the exposure.
Treasury Management.indb 381 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
382 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Securitisation exposures not meeting the requirements prescribed in the securitisation guidelines 
dated May 7, 2012 will be risk weighted at the rates prescribed therein.
**: The LTV ratio should not exceed the prescribed ceiling in all fresh cases of sanction. In case 
the LTV ratio is currently above the ceiling prescribed for any reasons, efforts should be made to 
bring it within limits.
@: Commercial Real Estate – Residential Housing (CRE-RH) would consist of loans to builders/
developers for residential housing projects (except for captive consumption) under CRE segment. 
Such projects should ordinarily not include non-residential commercial real estate. However, 
integrated housing projects comprising of some commercial space (e.g., shopping complex, school, 
etc.) can also be classified under CRE-RH, provided that the commercial area in the residential 
housing projects does not exceed 10% of the total Floor Space Index (FSI) of the project. In case the 
FSI of the commercial area in the predominantly residential housing complex exceeds the ceiling 
of 10%, the project loans should be classified as CRE and not CRE-RH.
Banks’ exposure to third dwelling unit onwards to an individual will also be treated as CRE exposures.
I.B. Off-Balance Sheet items
The credit risk exposure attached to off-Balance Sheet items has to be first calculated by multiplying 
the face value of each of the off-Balance Sheet items by ‘credit conversion factor’ as indicated in 
the table below. This will then have to be again multiplied by the weights attributable to the relevant 
counter-party as specified above.
Sr. No. Instruments Credit Conversion 
Factor
1. Direct credit substitutes, e.g., general guarantees of indebtedness 
(including standby L/Cs serving as financial guarantees for loans 
and securities) and acceptances (including endorsements with 
the character of acceptance).
100
2. Certain transaction-related contingent items (e.g., performance 
bonds, bid bonds, warranties and standby L/Cs related to 
particular transactions).
50
3. Short-term self-liquidating trade-related contingencies (such as 
documentary credits collateralized by the underlying shipments).
20
4. Sale and repurchase agreement and asset sales with recourse, 
where the credit risk remains with the bank.
100
5. Forward asset purchases, forward deposits and partly paid shares 
and securities, which represent commitments with certain draw 
down.
100
6. Note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities. 50
7. Other commitments (e.g., formal standby facilities and credit 
lines) with an original maturity of over one year.
50
Treasury Management.indb 382 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 383 383
8. Similar commitments with an original maturity up to one year, 
or which can be unconditionally cancelled at any time.
0
9. Aggregate outstanding foreign exchange contracts of original 
maturity –
• less than one year 2
• for each additional year or part thereof 3
10. Take-out Finance in the books of taking-over institution
• Unconditional take-out finance 100
• Conditional take-out finance 50
Note: As the counter-party exposure will determine the risk 
weight, it will be 100 percent in respect of all borrowers or zero 
percent if covered by Government guarantee.
11. Non-Funded exposures to commercial real estate 150
12. Non-funded capital market exposures, including those exempted 
from CME norms
125
13. Commitment to provide liquidity facility for securitization of 
standard asset transactions
100
14. Second loss credit enhancement for securitization of standard 
asset transactions provided by third party
100
15. Non-funded exposure to NBFC-ND-SI 100
Note: In regard to off-balance sheet items, the following transactions with non-bank counterparties 
will be treated as claims on banks and carry a risk-weight of 20%.
• Guarantees issued by banks against the counter guarantees of other banks.
• Rediscounting of documentary bills accepted by banks. Bills discounted by banks which have 
been accepted by another bank will be treated as a funded claim on a bank.
In all the above cases banks should be fully satisfied that the risk exposure is in fact on the other bank.
I. C. Risk Weights for Open Positions
Sr. No. Item Risk weight (%)
1. Foreign exchange open position. 100
2. Open position in gold
Note: The risk weighted position both in respect of foreign exchange 
and gold open position limits should be added to the other risk 
weighted assets for calculation of CRAR
100
I. D. Risk Weights for Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)/Interest Rate Swap (IRS)
For reckoning the minimum capital ratio, the computation of risk weighted assets on account of 
FRAs/IRS should be done as per the two steps procedure set out below:
Treasury Management.indb 383 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
384 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Step 1
The notional principal amount of each instrument is to be multiplied by the conversion factor given 
below:
Counter party Risk weight
Banks 20 per cent
Central & State Govt. 0 per cent
All others 100 per cent
II. Overseas operations (applicable only to Indian banks having branches abroad)
A. Funded Risk Assets
Sr. No. Item of asset or liability Risk Weight %
(i) Cash 0
(ii) Balances with Monetary Authority 0
(iii) Investments in Government securities 0
(iv) Balances in current account with other banks 20
(v) All other claims on banks including but not limited to funds loaned in 
money markets, deposit placements, investments in CDs/FRNs, etc.
20
(vi) Investment in non-bank sectors 100
(vii) Loans and advances, bills purchased and discounted and other credit 
facilities
(a) Claims guaranteed by Government of India. 0
(b) Claims guaranteed by State Governments 0
(c) Claims on public sector undertakings of Government of India. 100
(d) Claims on public sector undertakings of State Governments 100
(e) Others 100
(viii) All other banking and infrastructural assets 100
B. Non-funded Risk Assets
Sr. No. Instruments Credit Conversion 
Factor (%)
(i) Direct credit substitutes, e.g., general guarantees of indebtedness 
(including standby letters of credit serving as financial 
guarantees for loans and securities) and acceptances (including 
endorsements with the character of acceptances)
100
(ii) Certain transaction-related contingent items (e.g., performance 
bonds, bid bonds, warranties and standby letters of credit related 
to particular transactions)
50
Treasury Management.indb 384 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 385 385
(iii) Short-term self-liquidating trade related contingencies – such as 
documentary credits collateralised by the underlying shipments
20
(iv) Sale and repurchase agreement and asset sales with recourse, 
where the credit risk remains with the bank.
100
(v) Forward asset purchases, forward deposits and partly paid shares 
and securities, which represent commitments with certain draw 
down
100
(vi) Note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 50
(vii) Other commitments (e.g., formal standby facilities and credit 
lines) with an original maturity of over one year.
50
(viii) Similar commitments with an original maturity up to one year, 
or which can be unconditionally cancelled at any time.
0
ANNEX 9.1
MSE Advances Guaranteed by Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small 
Enterprises (CGTMSE) – Risk weights and Provisioning norms
(paragraph I (A)(III)(9) of Annex 9)
Risk-Weight
Example I
CGTMSE Cover: 75% of the amount outstanding or 75% of the unsecured amount or `18.75 lakh, 
whichever is less
Realisable value of Security : ` 1.50 lakh
(a) Balance outstanding : `10.00 lakh
(b) Realisable value of security : ` 1.50 lakh
(c) Unsecured amount (a) – (b) : ` 8.50 lakh
(d) Guaranteed portion (75% of (c) ) : ` 6.38 lakh
(e) Uncovered portion (8.50 lakh – 6.38 lakh) : ` 2.12 lakh
Risk-weight on (b) and (e) – Linked to the counter party
Risk-weight on (d) – Zero
Example II
CGTMSE cover: 75% of the amount outstanding or 75% of the unsecured amount or `18.75 lakh 
whichever is less
Realisable value of Security : `10.00 lakh.
(a) Balance outstanding : `40.00 lakh
(b) Realisable value of security : `10.00 lakh
Treasury Management.indb 385 6/19/2018 6:24:14 PM
386 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(c) Unsecured amount (a) – (b) : `30.00 lakh
(d) Guaranteed portion (max.) : `18.75 lakh
(e) Uncovered portion (`30 lakh – 18.75 lakh) : `11.25lakh
Risk-weight (b) and (e) – Linked to the counter party
Risk-weight on (d) – Zero
ANNEX 9.2
Terms and conditions for the purpose of liberal Risk Weight for Capital Adequacy
for investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) of residential assets of Housing Finance 
Companies (HFC) (Vide item (I)(A)(II)(12)of Annex 9)
1(a) The right, title and interest of a HFC in securitized housing loans and receivables there under 
should irrevocably be assigned in favour of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)/Trust.
1(b) Mortgaged securities underlying the securitized housing loans should be held exclusively on 
behalf of and for the benefit of the investors by the SPV/Trust.
1(c) The SPV or Trust should be entitled to the receivables under the securitised loans with an 
arrangement for distribution of the same to the investors as per the terms of issue of MBS. Such 
an arrangement may provide for appointment of the originating HFC as the servicing and paying 
agent. However, the originating HFC participating in a securitisation transaction as a seller, manager, 
servicer or provider of credit enhancement or liquidity facilities:
i. shall not own any share capital in the SPV or be the beneficiary of the trust used as a vehicle 
for the purchase and securitization of assets. Share capital for this purpose shall include all 
classes of common and preferred share capital;
ii. shall not name the SPV in such manner as to imply any connection with the bank;
iii. shall not have any directors, officers or employees on the board of the SPV unless the board 
is made up of at least three members and where there is a majority of independent directors. 
In addition, the official(s) representing the bank will not have veto powers;
iv. shall not directly or indirectly control the SPV; or
v. shall not support any losses arising from the securitization transaction or by investors involved 
in it or bear any of the recurring expenses of the transaction.
1(d) The loans to be securitized should be loans advanced to individuals for acquiring/constructing 
residential houses which should have been mortgaged to the HFC by way of exclusive first charge.
1(e) The loans to be securitized should be accorded an investment grade credit rating by any of the 
credit rating agencies at the time of assignment to the SPV.
1(f) The investors should be entitled to call upon the issuer - SPV - to take steps for recovery in the 
event of default and distribute the net proceeds to the investors as per the terms of issue of MBS.
1(g) The SPV undertaking the issue of MBS should not be engaged in any business other than the 
business of issue and administration of MBS of individual housing loans.
Treasury Management.indb 386 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 387 387
1(h) The SPV or Trustees appointed to manage the issue of MBS should have to be governed by the 
provisions of Indian Trusts Act, 1882.
2. If the issue of MBS is in accordance with the terms and conditions stated in paragraph 1 above 
and includes irrevocable transfer of risk and reward of the housing loan assets to the Special 
Purpose Vehicle (SPV)/Trust, investment in such MBS by any bank would not be reckoned 
as an exposure on the HFC originating the securitized housing loan. However, it would be 
treated as an exposure on the underlying assets of the SPV/Trust.
ANNEX 9.3
Conditions for availing concessional Risk Weight on investment in securitised paper 
pertaining to an infrastructure facility (Vide item (I)(A)(II)(14)of Annex 9)
1. The infrastructure facility should satisfy the conditions stipulated in our circular DBOD. No. 
BP. BC. 92/21.04.048/2002- 2003 dated June 16, 2004.
2. The infrastructure facility should be generating income/cash flows which would ensure 
servicing/repayment of the securitised paper.
3. The securitised paper should be rated at least ‘AAA’ by the rating agencies and the rating 
should be current and valid. The rating relied upon will be deemed to be current and valid if:
The rating is not more than one month old on the date of opening of the issue, and the rating rationale 
from the rating agency is not more than one year old on the date of opening of the issue, and the 
rating letter and the rating rationale is a part of the offer document.
In the case of secondary market acquisition, the ‘AAA’ rating of the issue should be in force and 
confirmed from the monthly bulletin published by the respective rating agency.
The securitised paper should be a performing asset on the books of the investing/lending institution.
ANNEX 9.4
Conditions for availing concessional risk weight for Advances covered by Insurance cover 
under Business Credit Shield the product of New India Assurance Company Ltd.
(Vide item (I)(A)(III)(10) of Annex10)
New India Assurance Company Limited (NIA) should comply with the provisions of the Insurance 
Act, 1938, the Regulations made thereunder – especially those relating to Reserves for unexpired 
risks and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Assets, Liabilities and Solvency 
Margin of Insurers) Regulations, 2000 and any other conditions/regulations that may be prescribed 
by IRDA in future, if their insurance product – Business Credit Shield (BCS) - is to qualify for the 
above treatment.
2. To be eligible for the above regulatory treatment in respect of export credit covered by BCS 
policy of NIA, banks should ensure that:
Treasury Management.indb 387 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
388 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The BCS policy is assigned in its favour, and NIA abides by the provisions of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 and the regulations made there under, especially those relating to Reserves for 
unexpired risks and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Assets, Liabilities 
and Solvency Margin of Insurers) Regulations, 2000, and any other conditions/regulations 
that may be prescribed by IRDA in future.
3. Banks should maintain separate account(s) for the advances to exporters, which are covered 
by the insurance under the “Business Credit Shield” to enable easy administration/verification 
of risk weights/provisions.
ANNEX 10
Worked out examples for computing Capital Charge for Credit and Market Risks
Example I- Case where the trading book does not contain equities and interest rate related derivative 
instruments
1. Assumptions:
1.1. A bank may have the following position:
Sl. No. Details
Amount
(in ` Crore)
1 Cash & Balances with RBI 200.00
2 Bank balances 200.00
3. Investments 2000.00
3.1 Held for Trading (Market Value) 500.00
3.2 Available for Sale (Market Value) 1000.00
3.3 Held to Maturity 500.00
4 Advances (net) 2000.00
5 Other Assets 300.00
6 Total Assets 4700.00
1.2. In terms of counter party, the investments are assumed to be as under:
Government – `1000 crore
Banks – `500 crore
Others – `500 crore
Treasury Management.indb 388 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 389 389
1.3. For simplicity sake the details of investments are assumed to be as under:
(i) Government Securities
Date of
Issue
Date of 
reporting Maturity Date Amount
` in crore Coupon (%) Type
01/03/1992 31/03/2003 01/03/2004 100 12.50 AFS
01/05/1993 31/03/2003 01/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1994 31/03/2003 31/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1995 31/03/2003 01/03/2015 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1998 31/03/2003 01/03/2010 100 11.50 AFS
01/03/1 999 31/03/2003 01/03/2009 100 11.00 AFS
01/03/2000 31/03/2003 01/03/2005 100 10.50 HFT
01/03/2001 31/03/2003 01/03/2006 100 10.00 HTM
01/03/2002 31/03/2003 01/03/2012 100 8.00 HTM
01/03/2003 31/03/2003 01/03/2023 100 6.50 HTM
Total 1000
(ii) Bank Bonds
Date of
Issue
Date of
reporting Maturity Date Amount
` in crore Coupon (%) Type
01/03/1992 31/03/2003 01/03/2004 100 12.50 AFS
01/05/1993 31/03/2003 01/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1994 31/03/2003 31/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1995 31/03/2003 01/03/2006 100 12.50 AFS
01/03/1998 31/03/2003 01/03/2007 100 11.50 HFT
Total 500
(iii) Other Securities
Date of
Issue
Date of
reporting Maturity Date Amount
` in crore Coupon (%) Type
01/03/1992 31/03/2003 01/03/2004 100 12.50 HFT
01/05/1993 31/03/2003 01/05/2003 100 12.00 HFT
01/03/1994 31/03/2003 31/05/2003 100 12.00 HFT
01/03/1995 31/03/2003 01/03/2006 100 12.50 HTM
01/03/1998 31/03/2003 01/03/2017 100 11.50 HTM
Total 500
Treasury Management.indb 389 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
390 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(iv) Overall Position
Break-up of total investments (` in crore)
Government Securities Bank bonds Other securities Total
HFT 100 100 300 500
AFS 600 400 0 1000
Trading Book 700 500 300 1500
HTM 300 0 200 500
Total 1000 500 500 2000
2. Computation of risk weighted assets
2.1. Risk Weighted Assets for Credit Risk
As per the guidelines, held for trading and available for sale securities would qualify to be categorized 
as trading book. Thus, trading book in the instant case would be `1500 crore as indicated above. 
While computing the credit risk, the securities held under trading book would be excluded and hence 
the risk-weighted assets for credit risks would be as under:
` in Crore
S. No. Details of Assets Market 
Value* Risk Weight (%) Risk weighted Assets
1 Cash & balances with RBI 200 0 0
2 Bank balances 200 20 40
3 Investments:
Government 300 0 0
Banks 0 20 0
Others 200 100 200
4 Advances (net) 2000 100 2000
5 Other Assets 300 100 300
6 Total Assets 3200 2540
*Assumed as Market Value for illustration
2.2. Risk Weighted Assets for Market Risk (Trading Book)
(Please refer to table in para 1.3(iv)
a. Specific Risk
(i) Government securities: `700 crore – Nil
(ii) Bank bonds:
Treasury Management.indb 390 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 391 391
(Amount in ` crore)
Details Capital charge Amount Capital charge
For residual term to final maturity 6 months 
or less
0.30% 200 0.60
For residual term to final maturity between 
6 and 24 months
1.125% 100 1.125
For residual term to final maturity exceeding 
24 months
1.80% 200 3.60
Total 500 5.325
(iii) Other securities: `300 crore @ 9% = `27 crore
Total charge for specific risk (i) + (ii) + (iii)
= `0 crore + `5.325 crore + `27 crore = `32.325 crore
Therefore, capital charge for specific risk in trading book is `32.33 crore.
b. General Market Risk
Modified duration is used to arrive at the price sensitivity of an interest rate related instrument. For 
all the securities listed below, date of reporting is taken as 31/3/2003.
(Amount in ` crore)
Counter Party Maturity Date Amount
(market value) Coupon (%)
Capital Charge
For general
market risk
Govt. 01/03/2004 100 12.50 0.84
Govt. 01/05/2003 100 12.00 0.08
Govt. 31/05/2003 100 12.00 0.16
Govt. 01/03/2015 100 12.50 3.63
Govt. 01/03/2010 100 11.50 2.79
Govt. 01/03/2009 100 11.00 2.75
Govt. 01/03/2005 100 10.50 1.35
Banks 01/03/2004 100 12.50 0.84
Banks 01/05/2003 100 12.00 0.08
Banks 31/05/2003 100 12.00 0.16
Banks 01/03/2006 100 12.50 1.77
Banks 01/03/2007 100 11.50 2.29
Others 01/03/2004 100 12.50 0.84
Others 01/05/2003 100 12.00 0.08
Others 31/05/2003 100 12.00 0.16
Total 1500 17.82
Treasury Management.indb 391 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
392 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
c. Total Charge for Market Risk
Adding the capital charges for specific risk as well as general market risk would give the total capital 
charge for the trading book of interest rate related instruments. Therefore, capital charge for Market 
Risks = `32.33 crore + `17.82 crore, i.e., `50.15 crore.
d. To facilitate computation of CRAR for the whole book, this capital charge needs to be converted 
into equivalent risk weighted assets. In India, the minimum CRAR is 9%. Hence, the capital charge 
could be converted to risk weighted assets by multiplying the capital charge by (100 ÷ 9), Thus risk 
weighted assets for market risk is 50.15*(100 ÷ 9) = `557.23 crore.
2.3 Computing the Capital Ratio
(Amount in ` crore)
1 Total Capital 400
2 Risk weighted assets for Credit Risk 2540.00
3 Risk weighted assets for Market Risk 557.23
4 Total Risk weighted assets (2+3) 3097.23
5 CRAR [(1÷4)*100] 12.91 %
Example 2 – indicating computation of capital charge for credit and market risks – with equities 
and interest rate related derivative instruments. Foreign exchange and gold open positions also have 
been assumed.
Assumptions
A bank may have the following position:
Sr. No. Details ` in Crore
1 Cash & Balances with RBI 200.00
2 Bank balances 200.00
3 Investments
3.1 Interest Rate related Securities
Held for Trading 500.00
Available for Sale 1000.00
Held to Maturity 500.00
3.2 Equities 300.00
4 Advances (net) 2000.00
5 Other Assets 300.00
6 Total Assets 5000.00
Foreign exchange open position limit is assumed as `60 crore and Gold open position is assumed 
at `40 crore.
Let us also assume that the bank is having the following positions in interest rate related derivatives:
Treasury Management.indb 392 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 393 393
(i) Interest Rate Swaps (IRS), `100 crore – bank received floating rate interest and pays fixed, 
next interest fixing after 6 months, residual life of swap 8 years, and
(ii) Long position in interest rate future (IRF), `50 crore, delivery after 6 months, life of underlying 
government security 3.5 years.
In terms of counter party the investments are assumed to be as under:
(a) Interest rate related securities
Government `1000 crore
Banks `500 crore
Corporate Bonds `500 crore
(b) Equities
 Others `300 crore
For interest rate swaps and interest rate futures the counterparties are assumed to be corporates.
For simplicity sake let us assume the details of investments in interest rate related securities as under:
(i) Government Securities
Date of Issue Date of
reporting
Maturity Date Amount
` crore
Coupon
(%)
Type
01/03/1992 31/03/2003 01/03/2004 100 12.50 AFS
01/05/1993 31/03/2003 01/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1994 31/03/2003 31/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1995 31/03/2003 01/03/2015 100 12.50 AFS
01/03/1998 31/03/2003 01/03/2010 100 11.50 AFS
01/03/1999 31/03/2003 01/03/2009 100 11.00 AFS
01/03/2000 31/03/2003 01/03/2005 100 10.50 HFT
01/03/2001 31/03/2003 01/03/2006 100 10.00 HTM
01/03/2002 31/03/2003 01/03/2012 100 8.00 HTM
01/03/2003 31/03/2003 01/03/2023 100 6.50 HTM
Total 1000
(ii) Bank Bonds
Date of
Issue
Date of
reporting Maturity Date Amount
(` in crore) Coupon (%) Type
01/03/1992 31/03/2003 01/03/2004 100 12.50 AFS
01/05/1993 31/03/2003 01/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1994 31/03/2003 31/05/2003 100 12.00 AFS
01/03/1995 31/03/2003 01/03/2006 100 12.50 AFS
01/03/1998 31/03/2003 01/03/2007 100 11.50 HFT
Total 500
Treasury Management.indb 393 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
394 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(iii) Other Securities
Date of
Issue
Date of
reporting Maturity Date Amount
(` in crore) Coupon (%) Type
01/03/1992 31/03/2003 01/03/2004 100 12.50 HFT
01/05/1993 31/03/2003 01/05/2003 100 12.00 HFT
01/03/1994 31/03/2003 31/05/2003 100 12.00 HFT
01/03/1995 31/03/2003 01/03/2006 100 12.50 HTM
01/03/1998 31/03/2003 01/03/2017 100 11.50 HTM
Total 500
(iv) Overall Position
Break-up of total investments (` in crore)
Interest rate related instruments Equity
Government 
Securities
Bank 
bonds
Other 
securities
Total Grand 
Total
HFT 100 100 300 500 300 800
AFS 600 400 0 1000 0 1000
Trading Book 700 500 300 1500 300 1800
HTM 300 0 200 500 0 500
Total 1000 500 500 2000 300 2300
2. Computation of Risk Weighted Assets
2.1. Risk Weighted Assets for Credit Risk
As per the guidelines, held for trading and available for sale securities would qualify to be categorized 
as Trading Book. Thus trading book in respect of interest rate related investments in the instant case 
would be `1500 crore. In addition, equities position of `300 crore would be in the trading book, 
as indicated above. The derivative products held by banks are to be considered as part of trading 
book. Open position on foreign exchange and gold also would be considered for market risk. While 
computing the capital charge for credit risk, the securities held under trading book would be excluded 
and hence the credit risk based risk-weights would be as under:
(Amount in ` Crore)
Details of Assets Book Value Risk Weight Risk weighted 
Assets
Cash & RBI 200 0% 0
Bank balances 200 20% 40
Investments in (HTM category)
Government
Banks
Corporate Bonds
300
0
200
0%
20%
100%
0
0
200
Treasury Management.indb 394 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 395 395
Advances (net) 2000 100% 2000
Other Assets 300 100% 300
Total 3200 2540
Credit Risk for OTC Derivatives:
IRS 100
(Credit conversion factor - 
1% + 1% per year)
100% 8.00
IRF 50
(Credit conversion factor 
for maturities less than one 
year – 0.5%)
100% 0.25
Total 3350 2548.25
2.2 Risk Weighted Assets for Market Risk (Trading Book)
a. Specific Risk
1. Investments in interest rate related instruments:
(i) Government securities – `700 crore
(ii) Bank bonds – Nil
(Amount in ` Crore)
Details Capital charge Amount Capital Charge
For residual term to final maturity 6
months or less
0.30% 200 0.600
For residual term to final maturity
between 6 and 24 months
1.125% 100 1.125
For residual term to final maturity
exceeding 24 months
1.80% 200 3.600
Total 500 5.325
(iii) Others `300 crore @ 9% = `27 crore
Total: (i) + (ii) + (iii)
= `0 crore+ `5.325 crore + `27 crore = `32.325 crore
2. Equities – capital charge of 9% = `27 crore
Total specific charge (1+2)
Therefore, capital charge for specific risk in the trading book is `59.33 crore (`32.33 crore + 
`27 crore).
b. General Market Risk
(1). Investments in interest rate related instruments:
Modified duration is used to arrive at the price sensitivity of an interest rate related instrument. For 
all the securities listed below, date of reporting is taken as 31/3/2003.
Treasury Management.indb 395 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
396 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(Amount in ` Crore)
Counter Party Maturity Date Amount 
market value Coupon (%) Capital Charge for 
general market risk
Govt. 01/03/2004 100 12.50 0.84
Govt. 01/05/2003 100 12.00 0.08
Govt. 31/05/2003 100 12.00 0.16
Govt. 01/03/2015 100 12.50 3.63
Govt. 01/03/2010 100 11.50 2.79
Govt. 01/03/2009 100 11.00 2.75
Govt. 01/03/2005 100 10.50 1.35
Banks 01/03/2004 100 12.50 0.84
Banks 01/05/2003 100 12.00 0.08
Banks 31/05/2003 100 12.00 0.16
Banks 01/03/2006 100 12.50 1.77
Banks 01/03/2007 100 11.50 2.29
Others 01/03/2004 100 12.50 0.84
Others 01/05/2003 100 12.00 0.08
Others 31/05/2003 100 12.00 0.16
Total 1500 17.82
(2) Positions in interest rate related derivatives
Interest rate swap
Counter 
Party
Maturity
Date
Notional Amount
(i.e., market value)
Modified 
duration or price
sensitivity
Assumed 
change in yield
(ACI)
Capital 
charge*
GOI 30/09/2003 100 0.47 1.00 0.47
GOI 31/03/2011 100 5.14 0.60 (–) 3.08
(–) 2.61
Interest rate future
Counter 
Party
Maturity 
Date
Notional Amount 
(i.e., market
value)
Modified 
duration or price
sensitivity
Assumed 
change in yield
Capital 
charge
GOI 30/09/2003 50 0.45 1.00 (–) 0.225
GOI 31/03/2007 50 2.84 0.75 1.070
0.840
Treasury Management.indb 396 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 397 397
(3) Disallowances
The price sensitivities calculated as above have been slotted into a duration-based ladder with fifteen 
time-bands as shown in table at the end of the Annexure. Long and short positions within a time 
band have been subjected to vertical disallowance of 5%. In the instant case, vertical disallowance is 
applicable under 3–6 month time band and 7.3–9.3 year time band. Then, net positions in each time 
band have been computed for horizontal offsetting subject to the disallowances mentioned in the 
table. In the instant case, horizontal disallowance is applicable only in respect of Zone 3. Horizontal 
disallowances in respect of adjacent zones are not applicable in the instant case.
3.1 Calculation of Vertical Disallowance
While calculating capital charge for general market risk on interest rate related instruments, banks should 
recognize the basis risk (different types of instruments whose price responds differently for movement 
in general rates) and gap risk (different maturities within timebands). This is addressed by a small 
capital charge (5%) on matched (off-setting) positions in each time band (“Vertical Disallowance”).
An off-setting position, for vertical disallowance, will be either the sum of long positions and or the 
short positions within a time band, whichever is lower. In the table at the end of the annex, except for 
the time band 3–6 months in Zone 1 and the time band of 7.3–9.3 years, where there are off-setting 
positions of (–) 0.22 and 2.79, there is no offsetting position in any other time band. The sum of long 
positions in the 3–6 months time band is + 0.47 and the sum of short positions in this time band is 
(–) 0.22. This offsetting position of 0.22 is subjected to a capital charge of 5% i.e. 0.01. The sum of 
long positions in the 7.3–9.3 years time band is + 2.79 and the sum of short positions in this time 
band is (–) 3.08. This off-setting position of 2.79 is subjected to a capital charge of 5% i.e. 0.1395. 
It may be mentioned here that if a bank does not have both long and short positions in the same time 
band, there is no need for any vertical disallowance. Banks in India are not allowed to take any short 
position in their books, except in derivatives. Therefore, banks in India will generally not be subject 
to vertical disallowance unless they have a short position in derivatives.
3.2. Calculation of Horizontal Disallowance
While calculating capital charge for general market risk on interest rate related instruments, banks 
must subject their positions to a second round of off-setting across time bands with a view to give 
recognition to the fact that interest rate movements are not perfectly correlated across maturity bands 
(yield curve risk and spread risk) i.e matched long and short positions in different time bands may 
not perfectly off-set. This is achieved by a “Horizontal Disallowance”.
An off-setting position, for horizontal disallowance, will be either the sum of long positions and or 
the short positions within a Zone, whichever is lower. In the above example, except in Zone 3 (7.3 to 
9.3 years) where there is an off-setting (matched) position of (–) 0.29, there is no off-setting position 
in any other Zone. The sum of long positions in this Zone is 9.74 and the sum of short positions in 
this Zone is (–) 0.29. This off-setting position of 0.29 is subject to horizontal disallowance as under:
Within the same Zone (Zone 3) 30% of 0.29 = 0.09
Between adjacent Zones (Zone 2 & 3) = Nil
Between Zones 1 and Zone 3 = Nil
Treasury Management.indb 397 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
398 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
It may be mentioned here that if a bank does not have both long and short positions in different time 
zones, there is no need for any horizontal disallowance. Banks in India are not allowed to take any 
short position in their books except in derivatives. Therefore, banks in India will generally not be 
subject to horizontal disallowance unless they have short positions in derivatives.
Total capital charge for interest rate related instruments is shown below:
For overall net position 16.06
For vertical disallowance 0.15
For horizontal disallowance in Zone 3 0.09
For horizontal disallowance in adjacent zones nil
For horizontal disallowance between Zone 1 & 3 Nil
Total capital charge for interest rate related instruments 16.30
(4) The total capital charge in this example for general market risk for interest rate related instruments 
is computed as under:
Sl. No. Capital charge Amount
(`)
1 For the vertical disallowance (under 3–6 month time band) 1, 12,500
2 For the vertical disallowance (under 7.3–9.3 year time band) 13,95,000
3 For the horizontal disallowance (under Zone 3) 9,00,000
4 For the horizontal disallowances between adjacent zones 0
5 For the overall net open position (17.82 – 2.61 + 0.84) 16,06,00,000
6 Total capital charge for general market risk on interest rate related 
instruments (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5)
16,30,07,500
(5) Equities: Capital charge for General Market Risk for equities is 9%.
Thus, general market risk capital charge on equities would work out to `27 crore.
(6) Forex/Gold Open Position Capital charge on forex/gold position would be computed at 9%.
Thus the same works out to `9 crore
(7) Capital charge for market risks in this example is computed as under:
(Amount in ` crore)
Details Capital charge for 
Specific Risk
Capital charge for 
General Market Risk
Total
Interest instruments Rate Related 32.33 16.30 48.63
Equities 27.00 27.00 54.00
Forex/Gold - 9.00 9.00
Total 59.33 52.30 111.63
Treasury Management.indb 398 6/19/2018 6:24:15 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 399 399
2.3 Computing Capital Ratio
To facilitate computation of CRAR for the whole book, this capital charge for market risks in the 
Trading Book needs to be converted into equivalent risk weighted assets. As in India, a CRAR of 9% 
is required, the capital charge could be converted to risk weighted assets by multiplying the capital 
charge by (100 ÷ 9), i.e., `111.63*(100 ÷ 9) = `1240.33 crore. Therefore, risk weighted assets for 
market risk is: `1240.33 crore.
(Amount in ` crore)
1 Total Capital 400.00
2 Risk weighted assets for Credit Risk 2548.25
3 Risk weighted assets for Market Risk 1240.33
4 Total Risk weighted assets (2+3) 3788.58
5 CRAR [(1÷4)*100] 10.56 %
Note: The reporting format for the purpose of monitoring the capital ratio is given in Annex 12 to the 
Master Circular dated 1st July, 2009 on Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy-Basel I Framework.
Example for computing the Capital Charge including the vertical and horizontal 
disallowances on interest rate related instruments
(Para No 2.2. (b) (3) of Example 2 above)
Zone 1 Zone 2 Zone 3
Time-band 0–1 
month
1–3 
month
3–6 
month
6m – 
1y
1– 
1.9y
1.9– 
2.8y
2.8– 
3.6y
3.6– 
4.3y
4.3– 
5.7y
5.7– 
7.3y
7.3– 9.3y 9.3– 
10.6y
10.6– 
12y
12– 
20y
Over 
20y
Capital 
Charge
Position 0.72 2.51 1.35 1.77 2.29 2.75 2.79 3.63 17.82
Derivatives 
(long)
0.47 1.07 1.54
Derivatives 
(short)
(–)0.22 (–)3.08 (–)3.30
Net Position 0.72 0.25 2.51 1.35 1.77 3.36 2.75 (–)0.29 3.63 16.06
Vertical 
Disallowance 
(5%)
0.01** 0.14@ 0.15
Horizontal 
Disallowance 1 
(under Zone)
0.09# 0.09
Horizontal 
Disallowance 2
Horizontal 
Disallowance 3
** 0.22 x 5%=0.01 @ 2.79 x 5%=0.14 # 0.29 x 30%=0.09
Treasury Management.indb 399 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
1. DEBT INSTRUMENTS-FUNDAMENTALS
1. On value date 10 June 2017, what is the term to maturity in years, of a government 
security maturing on 23 March 2021?
Use the “yearfrac” function in Excel, with the following specifications:
Settlement date: 10 June 2017
Maturity Date: 23 March 2021
Basis: 4 (Government securities trade on 30/360 European basis. We therefore use ‘4’, in the 
Excel function, which applies this day count convention.)
 Answer: 3.786 years
2. Which of the following about a callable bond is true?
(a) Callable bonds always trade at a discount to non-callable bonds
(b) Callable bonds expose issuers to the risk of reduced re-investment return
(c) Callable bonds are actually variable tenor bonds
(d) Callable bonds are not as liquid as non-callable bonds
 Answer: c
3. Coupon of a floating rate bond is _______
(a) Modified whenever there is a change in the benchmark rate
(b) Modified at pre-set intervals with reference to a benchmark rate
(c) Modified for changes in benchmark rate beyond agreed levels
(d) Modified within a range, for changes in the benchmark rate
 Answer: b
2. INDIAN DEBT MARKETS
1. Which of the following about the market capitalization of corporate bonds in the NSE 
WDM is true?
(a) Corporate bonds account for over 10% of the total market capitalization
(b) Corporate bonds represent the second largest segment of bonds, after Government 
securities
(c) Market capitalization of corporate bonds is lower than that of listed state loans
EXAMPLES/PROBLEMS Appendix
B
Treasury Management.indb 400 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 401 401
d) None of the above
 Answer: c
2. The most active participants in the WDM segment of the NSE are:
(a) Primary dealers
(b) Scheduled banks
(c) Trading members
(d) Mutual Funds
 Answer: b
3. Which of the following statements are true about NDS-OM?
 (a) NDS-OM is a screen-based anonymous order matching system
(b) NDS-OM became operational with effect from 1 August 2005
(c) NDS-OM is faster, transparent and cheaper and provides benefits like audit trail
(d) All of the above
 Answer: d
3. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT SECURITIES-BONDS
1. Which of the following is true about a uniform price auction?
(a) An auction in which all successful bids are made for the same price.
(b) An auction in which all bidders have bid a uniform price.
(c) An auction in which all successful bidders are allotted bonds at the same price.
(d) An auction in which the cut-off price is derived as the weighted average of all successful 
bids.
 Answer: c
2. Which of the following is false about the devolvement of treasury issues on the primary 
dealer?
(a) PDs can set-off the accepted bids in an auction against the devolvement on them.
(b) Devolvement on PDs is on pro-rata basis, depending on the underwriting obligation of 
each PD.
(c) Underwriting fee is payable on the net amount, after accounting for the devolvement on 
PDs.
(d) Devolvement on pro-rata basis is done after setting off successful bids in the auction.
 Answer: c
3. The bids received in a treasury auction are as follows:
Number of Bonds Price quoted by
 bidders (`)
20,000,000 110.25
12,000,000 109.50
10,000,000 109.25
14,000,000 109.00
25,000,000 108.95
If the notified amount is `500 crore, what is the cut-off price, assuming there is no 
devolvement?
Treasury Management.indb 401 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
402 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
 Answer: Since it is a price-based auction, the bids will be filled from the highest price downwards. 
If the bids at the cut-off price exceed the notified amount, pro-rata allotments will be made. 
On computing the amount (product of number of bonds and quoted price, and cumulating the 
amounts so arrived, we can reach the cut-off price). The cut-off price is `109.00.
The allotments are as follows:
Quantity Price Quoted by Amount bid (`) Allotment (`)
 bidders (`)
20,000,000 110.25 2,205,000,000 2,205,000,000
12,000,000 109.5 1,314,000,000 1,314,000,000
10,000,000 109.25 1,092,500,000 1,092,500,000
14,000,000 109 1,526,000,000 388,500,000
25,000,000 108.95 2,723,750,000 Nil
The allotment at the cut-off price is arrived at by finding the difference between the notified 
amount and the cumulative allotments up to the previous bid.
4. Using the same data as in question 3, at what price non-competitive bids will be allotted?
 Answer: Non-competitive bids will get allotment at the weighted average price of successful 
bids. The price and quantity for successful bids are as follows:
Number of Bonds Price (`) Bid Amount Weightage Weighted Price
20,000,000.00 110.25 2,205,000,000 0.441 48.6203
12,000,000.00 109.5 1,314,000,000 0.2628 28.7766
10,000,000.00 109.25 1,092,500,000 0.2185 23.8711
3,564,220.18 109.38 8,500,000 0.0777 8.4693
109,7373
Note: The weighted average price is `109.7373.
4. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT SECURITIES-T BILLS
1. A treasury bill maturing on 28 June 2018 is trading in the market on 3 July 2017 at a 
price of `92.8918. What is the discount rate inherent in this price?
 Answer:
The yield is computed as:
= [(100-price)*365]/(Price * No of days to maturity)
= [(100–92.8918)*365]/(92.8918*360) = 7.7584%
2. What is the price at which a treasury bill maturing on 23 March 2018 would be valued 
on 13 July 2017 at a yield of 6.8204%?
 Answer:
The price can be computed as
= 100/{1+ [yield% * (No of days to maturity/365)]}
= 100/{1+ [6.8204 %*( 253/365)]} = `95.4858
Treasury Management.indb 402 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 403 403
3. What is the day count convention in the Treasury bill markets?
(a) 30/360
(b) Actual/Actual
(c) Actual/360
(d) Actual/365
 Answer: d
4. Calculation of yield on Treasury Bills:
 Yield = 
Face Value – 1
Price × 365
days to maturity
 Presently RBI issues T Bills for three different maturities namely 91 days, 182 days and 
364 days. The treasury bills are available for a minimum amount of `25,000/- and in 
multiples of `25,000/- thereafter.
The T Bills do not carry a coupon rate but are issued at a discount to the face value. Though 
the yields on T Bills are lower as compared to other Money Market instruments, risk averse 
investors and banks prefer to invest in these securities. Yields on the T Bills set the bench 
mark for arriving at the interest rate or yield on any other short term instruments. As these 
instruments are risk free, all other instruments in the money market do provide higher yields.
(i) Calculate the yield on the basis of the following facts:
Face value of a 364 day T Bill is `100.00
Purchase price is `88.24
Calculate the Yield
Yield = (100 – 88.24)
88.24 × 365
364
 = 13.36%
(ii) What is the yield on a 91 day, Face Value `100 T bill purchased at `98.25?
Yield = {100–98.25}/98.25 X (365/91) = 7.14%
(iii)What is the price of a 182 day T Bill of face value `100 yielding 3.57%?
{100-X}/X multiplied by (365/182) = 3.57%
X = `98.25
5. STATE GOVERNMENT BONDS
1. Which of the following about state government borrowings is true?
(a) State government bonds are issued by the respective Finance Department of the States.
(b) State government bonds are fully guaranteed by the central government.
(c) Most state government bonds are issued by the RBI.
(d) State government bonds are issued by the RBI, at the same rates, along with central 
government bonds.
 Answer: c
Treasury Management.indb 403 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
404 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
6. CALL MONEY MARKETS
1. Which of the following participants in the call markets are allowed to lend as well as 
borrow?
(a) Mutual Funds
(b) Banks and Primary Dealers
(c) Corporates
(d) Financial Institutions
 Answer: b
2. The non-bank entities are allowed to participate in the call money market? Is the 
statement true or false?
(a) True
(b) False
 Answer: b
3. What are the features of NDS-Call System?
(a) Electronic Dealing Platform
(b) Direct one to one negotiation
(c) Online Exposure Monitoring
(d) All of the Above
 Answer: d
7. CORPORATE DEBT BONDS
1. Which of the following statements is true about the offer document?
 (a) An offer document has to be filed with SEBI for all debenture issues, whether public or 
privately placed.
(b) Offer document has to be filed for all public issues only.
(c) An offer document need not be filed if the debentures are issued for maturities below 18 
months.
(d) In the case of private placement, an abridged offer document is to be filed with SEBI.
 Answer: b
2. Which of the following statements is false regarding credit rating of corporate debentures?
(a) All public issues of debentures should be compulsorily credit rated.
(b) Ratings have to be sought from agencies registered with SEBI.
(c) Debentures with maturity less than 18 months need not be rated.
(d) Mutual funds are not permitted to subscribe to unrated corporate paper.
 Answer: c
3. Which of the following statement is false regarding the SEBI ‘Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities Regulation, 2008’?
(a) Provides for issuance and listing of non-convertible debt securities (excluding bonds 
issued by Governments) issued by and company, PSU or statutory corporations.
(b) These regulations apply to public issue of debt securities and listing of debt securities 
through public issue or on private placement basis on a recognized stock exchange.
Treasury Management.indb 404 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 405 405
(c) These regulations apply to issue and listing of securitized debt instruments and security 
receipts for which separate regulatory regime is in place.
(d) The Regulations provide for rationalized disclosure requirements.
 Answer: c
8. COMMERCIAL PAPER AND CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSITS
1. Which of the following is the largest investor in CPs?
(a) Mutual Funds
(b) Corporate Treasuries
(c) Financial Institutions
(d) Scheduled Banks
 Answer: d
2. Which of the following entities cannot issue CPs?
(a) Banks
(b) All-India Financial Institutions
(c) Primary Dealers
(d) A Company whose borrowal account has been classified as sub-standard.
 Answer: d
3. Example to calculate the Issue Price of CP:-
CPs/CDs
Issue Price = 
F
1 + (I/100 × N/365)
Where F = Face Value, I = Effective interest rate per annum and N is Usance period.
X Ltd. is planning to issue a CP of `25 lakhs. The following additional details are provided:
• Maturity period – 3 months
• Effective rate of interest –10.5%
Calculate the Issue Price.
 Answer: The formula to calculate the Issue Price is as under:-
Issue Price = 
F
1 + (I/100 × N/365)
where F = Face Value
I = Effective Interest Rate
N = Usance period
In the extant case, F = `25 lakhs, I = 10.5% and U = 3 months meaning 90 days.
Using these values, the Issue Price comes to `24,36,907.46.
4. What is the issue price of a 182-day commercial paper of Face Value `100 at an effective 
interest rate of 9.25%?
 Answer: Issue price = F/{1 + (9.25%/365) X 182}
= 100/1 + 0.046123
= 100/1.046123
= 95.59
Treasury Management.indb 405 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
406 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
9. REPOS
1. If the RBI announces that it has done repos of `3000 crore, what does this imply?
(a) RBI has lent securities worth `3000 crore through the repo markets to the participants.
(b) RBI has reversed the repo deals of participants who entered into a repo with RBI.
(c) RBI has inducted funds amounting to `3000 crores into the market.
(d) RBI has borrowed securities from the banking system, and lent them onward in the repo 
markets.
 Answer: c
2. A 3-day repo is entered into on 10 July 2017, on an 11.99% 2025 security, maturing on 
7 April 2025. The face value of the transaction is `3,00,00,000. The price of the security 
is `116.42. If the repo rate is 7%, what is the settlement amount on 10 July 2017?
 Answer: Settlement amount on 10 July 2017 is the transaction value for the securities plus 
accrued interest.
Transaction Value:
3,00,00,000 * 116.42/100 = `3,49,26,000
Accrued Interest:
The security’s maturity date is 7 April 2025. Using the Coupdaybs function, we can find the 
number of days from last coupon date. (Settlement: 10 July 2001; Maturity: 7 April 2009; 
Frequency: 2; Basis: 4; The number of days is 93.
Accrued interest = 3,00,00,000 * 11.99%* 93/360 = `9, 29, 225.00
Therefore, the settlement amount is: `3,49,26,000 + `9,29,225.00 = `3,58,55,225.00
3. Using the same data as in Question 2, determine the settlement amount for the second leg 
of the repo transaction. The settlement amount for the second leg involves the following:
Interest on the Amount borrowed
= 35855225 * .07 * 3/365
= `20629.03
Amount to be settled: 35855225 + 20629.03 = `35875854.03
4. Repo Transaction
 Bank A agrees to borrow approximately `10 crores from Bank B for a period of 
3 days at an interest rate of 5%.
Borrower: Bank A
Lender: Bank B
Tenor: 3 days
Repo Rate: 5.75%
Security: 6.85%GOI 2019
(Government of India Security with a coupon rate of
6.85% and maturing on 5 April 2019)
Ready Leg date: 25 August 2017
Forward Leg Date: 28 August 2017
Ready Leg Computation
Ready Leg Price of Security: `100
Face Value of Security: `10,00,00,000/-
Principal Value of Security: `10,00,00,000/- ………. A
Treasury Management.indb 406 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 407 407
Last Interest Date: 5 April 2010
Accrued Interest on Security: `2682916.66 ………. B
Ready Leg Proceeds (A+B): `102682916.66 ………. C
Forward Leg Computation
Repo Interest Amount: (`102682916.66) × .0.0575 × 3/365
 `48528.22 ………. D
Forward Leg Proceeds (C+D): `102731444.88 ………. E
Accrued Interest on Security: `2740000 ………. F
Principal Value of Security(E-F): `99991444.88 ………. G
Forward Leg Price of Security: [G/(100000000)]X100
 `99.99914
This example illustrates how the forward leg price is derived for a repo transaction.
10. BOND MARKET INDICES AND BENCH MARKS
1. What does re-balancing of a bond index mean?
(a) Changing the weightages in the index so that the market capitalization of bonds is kept 
constant.
(b) Adjusting the index for changes in the composition of the index portfolio to ensure that 
artificial capital gains or losses are not included in the index.
(c) Adjusting the composition of the index, whenever coupons are paid, such that the index 
is not impacted by changes in accrued interest.
(d) Changing the composition of the index when yield alters, such that duration of the index 
is kept constant.
 Answer: b
2. What is the information gathered from market participants in the poll to determine NSE 
MIBOR?
(a) The rate at which they would be able to lend and borrow in the markets.
(b) The rate at which they are willing to lend and borrow amongst one another.
(c) Their view of the market rates for lending and borrowing.
(d) Their view of the lending and borrowing rates of specific market participants.
 Answer: c
11. TRADING MECHANISM
1. Which of the following statements about negotiated trade entry is false?
(a) If a trading member represents both the buyer and the seller, negotiated trade orders can 
be entered in a single screen.
(b) Trading members can invoke the security descriptor, and fill up the code and transaction 
details of the selling participants, and confirm the trade.
(c) All negotiated trades require approval of the exchange, only after which trading members 
receive confirmation slips.
(d) Negotiated trade entries can be made outside of set counter-party limits, and sent for 
approval within the end of the trading day.
 Answer: d
Treasury Management.indb 407 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
408 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
2. A trading member on the WDM segment of NSE sets up a counter party limit of `400 
lakh against a counter party and utilize `280 lakh on a given day which is outstanding 
in current asset limit. The next day, he modifies the CP limit to `150 lakh. Which of the 
following will hold good?
(a) The CP limits cannot be modified to a level lower than amounts in current asset limit.
(b) The counter party has to be notified about the reduction in the CP limit.
(c) The new CP limit will result in the counterparty canceling or reversing that amount of 
transaction that exceed the new CP limit.
(d) The earlier transaction will remain in the system as utilized CP limit until those trades 
are settled; the new CP limit will apply for fresh trades.
 Answer: a
3. Repo trades on the NEAT are matched in terms of
(a) Rates, volume and other order conditions
(b) Price, volume and other order conditions
(c) Price-time priority
(d) Rates-time priority
 Answer: a
12. REGULATORY & PROCEDURAL ASPECTS
1. The day count convention for corporate bonds is
(a) 30/360 US NASD b) Actual/365
(c) Actual/360 d) 30/360 European
 Answer: b
2. A 364-day CP, maturing on 28 June 2018, is trading on 17 July 2017, at a price of `93.3375. 
What is the Yield inherent in this price?
 Answer:
Yield = 93.3375 * 346
(100 93.3375) * 365
= 7.5300% (Number of days between 17/07/2017 and 28/06/2018 is 346 days)
3. A 90 day CP is issued on 2 July 2017, when the price of a t-bill of same tenor is `97.5675. 
If the CP was issued at a price of `97.45028, what is the spread at which it has been 
issued?
 Answer: The implicit yield for treasury bills and CPs can be found using the formula
Yield = ((100-price)*365)/(Price * no of days to maturity)
The yield implicit in the price of the T-bill is = ((100 – 97.5675)*365))/(97.5675*90)
= 10.1111%
The yield implicit in the price of the CP is = ((100 – 97.45028)*365))/(97.45028*90)
= 10.6111%
The spread at which the CP has been issued is = 10.6111 – 10.1111 = 50 basis points.
4. Compute the Rupee value of an SGL transaction, with the following data:
Coupon Rate: 11.68%
Maturity date: 6 August 2018
Settlement Date: 11 July 2017
Price: `105.4025
Treasury Management.indb 408 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 409 409
Transaction amount: `50000000
 Answer: Value of the transaction = number of securities * trade price
= (50000000/100) * 105.4025 = `5,27,01,250
Accrued Interest for the period since the last coupon is
= days since the last coupon/360 * coupon rate * face value
= (155/360) * 0.1168 * 50000000 = `25,14,444
Settlement amount = Value of transaction + Accrued Interest
= `5,27,01,250 + 25,14,444 = `5,52,15,694
(Number of days since the last coupon date can be computed using the coupdaybs function 
in Excel. Specify Settlement date; maturity date; frequency = 2; and basis = 4)
5. The details of a transaction in G-Secs is as under:
Coupon Rate: 10.50%
Maturity Date: 21 May 2021
Settlement Date: 29 July 2017
Price: `111.9125
Transaction Amount: `63500000
The buyer is unable to lodge the SGL on the settlement date. The transaction is settled 1 day 
later. If the NSE overnight MIBOR on the previous day was 8.25%, what is the amount for 
which this SGL will settle?
 Answer: Value of the transaction is = number of securities * trade price
= (63500000/100) * 111.9125
= `7,10,64,438
Accrued Interest for the period since the last coupon
= days since the last coupon/360*coupon rate *face value
= (68/360) * 0.1050 * 63500000
= `12,59,417
Settlement amount = `7,10,64,438 + 12,59,417
= `7,23,23,855
(Number of days since the last coupon date can be computed using the coupdaybs function 
in Excel. Specify Settlement date; maturity date; frequency = 2; and basis = 4)
The amount of interest to be paid for 1 day delay in settlement will be the overnight MIBOR 
applied to the settlement amount, on actual/365 day basis.
Interest to be paid = 7,23,23,855 * 0.0825*1/365
= `16, 347.17
Therefore settlement amount with interest will be = `7,23,40,201
13. VALUATION OF BONDS
1. A GOI security with coupon of 11.68%, maturing on 6 August 2019, is to be settled on 
1 Feb 2018. What are the number of days from the previous coupon date?
(a) 179
(b) 176
(c) 178
Treasury Management.indb 409 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
410 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
(d) 175
 Answer: d.
We use the coupdaybs function in Excel and specify the following:
Settlement date: 1 February 2018
Maturity Date: 6 August 2019
Frequency: 2
Basis: 4
The answer is: 175 days
2. What is the accrued interest on a 11.68% GOI security, maturing on 6 August 2019, 
trading on 1 June 2018 at a YTM of 7.7395%?
(a) `3.6901
(b) `3.7311
(c) `3.7105
(d) `3.7520
 Answer: b
Accrued interest is computed as Coupon payment * (number of days from previous coupon/
days in the coupon period)
We use the coupdaybs and coupday functions to ascertain days from previous coupon and 
days in the coupon period.
The amount of coupon is `11.68/2.
Therefore, the accrued interest is
= 5.84 * (115/180)
= `3.7311
3. A 11.68% GOI security maturing on 6 August 2019, is being priced in the market on 
11 July 2018 at `104.34. The YTM of the bond is
(a) 7.3728%
(b) 7.3814%
(c) 7.3940%
(d) 7.3628%
We use the Yield function in Excel, specifying settlement (11 July 2018) and maturity dates 
(6 Aug 2019), coupon (0.1168), price of the security (104.34), redemption (100) frequency 
(2), basis (4).
The answer obtained is 7.3728%.
 Answer: a
4. The following is the description of bonds held in a portfolio. What is the portfolio yield, 
using the weighted yield method?
 
 Coupon Maturity Date Market Price on Number of Bonds
(% p.a.) 11 July 2018 (`) 
11.68 6-Aug-2019 104.34 5400
11.15 1-Sep-2019 104.03 5560
13.82 30-May-2019 105.5 5720
12.69 10-May-2019 104.9 5880
11.00 23-May-2020 105.74 6040 
Treasury Management.indb 410 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 411 411
 Answer: The yield of each of the bonds can be computed using the ‘yield’ function (see 
solved example 3 above). The market value of each bond can be computed as the product of 
number of bonds and market price as on 11 July 2018.
 
 Coupon Maturity Date Price (`) Yield (%) Number of Market
(% p.a.) Bonds Value (`) 
11.68 6-Aug-2019 104.34 7.3728% 5400 563436
11.15 1-Sep-2019 104.03 7.3770% 5560 578406.8
13.82 30-May-2019 105.5 7.2731% 5720 603460
12.69 10-May-2019 104.9 6.5056% 5880 616812
11.00 23-May-2020 105.74 7.6309% 6040 638669.6 
The yield of the portfolio can be found by weighting each bond’s yield by the market value 
of the bond in the portfolio. This is done as:
{(7.3728*563436) + (7.3770*578406.8) + (7.2731*603460) + (6.5056*616812) + 
(7.6309*638669.6)}/(563436 + 578406.8 + 603460 + 616812 + 638669.6)
We can do the same in Excel, using the formula
= sumproduct (yield array, market value array)/sum(market value array)
The answer in both cases is 7.2302%, which is the portfolio yield.
5. On 12 April 2018, a dealer purchases a 11.68% GOI bond maturing on 6 August 2019 
for `104.34. He holds the bond for 1 year, and sells it on 11 April 2019, for `100.90. If 
the coupons received during the holding period are re-invested at 8.2405% (1st coupon) 
and 6.7525% (2nd coupon), what is the realized yield on the investment?
 Answer: The components of realized yield are:
Coupon income, re-investment of coupons and capital gains/losses.
 Coupon income: The number of coupons between the acquisition date and date of sale of the 
bond can be found with the coupnum function. In this case there are two coupons. Therefore 
the coupon received is `11.68.
 Re-investment Income: We can find the first coupon date, by using the ‘coupncd’ function 
in Excel. The first coupon is due on 6 August 2018. Since the bond will be sold on 11 April 
2019, the number of days for which the coupon will be re-invested will be 248 days. The 
interest rate applicable to this coupon, as given in the question, is 8.2405%. Therefore the 
re-investment income can be computed as
= (11.68/2) * (248/365)* 0.082405 = 0.3270
Similarly, the second coupon is due on 6 Feb 2019. It will be reinvested for 65 days, at 
6.7525%. The reinvestment income will be
= (11.68/2) * (64/365)* 0.067525 = 0. 0691
 Capital gain/loss:
 `100.90 – 104.34 = – 3.44
The total rupee return from holding the bond for a year is
= 11.68 + 0.3270+ 0.0691 – 3.44 = 8.6361
The released yield therefore is
= (8.6361/104.34)*100 = 8.2769%
Treasury Management.indb 411 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
412 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
14. YIELD CURVE AND TERM STRUCTURE OF INTEREST RATES
1. The NSE ZCYC estimates for July 11, 2001 are as follows:
 Beta 0 = 11.4652
 Beta 1 = – 2.2510
 Beta 2 = – 10.7202
 Tau = 1.4197
 What is the spot rate for a term to maturity of 3.5 years?
 Answer:
We use the ZCYC valuation equation
r(m,b) = ß0 + ( ß1
 + ß2
) * [1 – exp(–m/τ)]/(m/τ) – ß2 * exp(–m/τ)
where ‘m’ denotes related maturity for the cash flows in a bond and ‘b’ =[ß0, ß1, ß2 and tau] are 
parameters to be estimated. Here ß0 is the level parameter and commonly interpreted as long 
term (long term in mathematical sense – approaching infinity) rate, ß1 is slope parameter, ß2 is 
curvature parameter and tau (τ) is scale parameter while (ß0 + ß1) gives the short term rate.
We can take the values provided by NSE to an Excel Spreadsheet, and key in the formula 
above, substituting 3.5 for m in the equation, and substituting the NSE estimates for ß0
, ß1
and ß2
 and Tau. We then get
= 11.4652 + ((–2.2510 – 10.7202) * (1 – exp(–3.5/1.4197))/(3.5/1.4197) – (–10.7202*exp 
(– 3.5/1.4197)) = 7.56185%
2. If there are 2 bonds trading in the market as follows, on 11 July 2018 as detailed below:
 i. 11.98% 2021 (Maturity 8 Sep 2021): `111.8
 ii. 11.19% 2022 (Maturity 12 Aug 2022): `111.83
 What is the linearly interpolated rate for 3.5 years, using the above data?
 Answer: Using the Yield function, we can find out the YTM of the above bonds as 7.6917% 
and 7.7524% respectively. Using the yearfrac function, we can find the term to maturity of 
these bonds as 3.1583 years and 4.0861 years respectively. To find the YTM for a 3.5 year 
bond, we can do a linear interpolation, as follows:
= 7.6917 + (7.7524 – 7.6917)*((3.5 – 3.1583)/(4.0861 – 3.1583)) = 7.7141%
3. If the yield curve is upward sloping, which of the following is false?
(a) The market expects short term interest rates to increase
(b) The liquidity premium is increasing with increase in tenor
(c) There is an excess of demand over supply in shorter maturities
(d) The interest rates are positively related to term, along the yield curve
 Answer: c
4. The NSE-ZCYC estimate of the spot rate for the term 7.2876 years is 9.1648%. What 
is the discounted value of a cash flow of `100, receivable at the end of that term?
 Answer: We can use the ZCYC estimates to arrive at the discounted value of any cash flow, 
by using the formula:
d(m,b) = exp{r(m,b) * m)}/100
Therefore the discount factor to be applied to the cash flow of `100, receivable at the end of 
7.2876 years is (Excel recognises the term exp in the formula)
= exp ((–9.1684 * 7.2876)/100)
= 0.512787
Treasury Management.indb 412 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 413 413
Therefore, the discounted value of `100 will be
= 100*0.5128
= `51.2787
5. The following term structure of interest rates is given to you:
Tenor yield (% p.a.)
(in years)
0.30 7.0257
0.35 7.0487
0.40 7.0847
0.45 7.1589
0.50 7.1905
0.55 7.2025
0.60 7.2368
0.65 7.2604
0.70 7.2928
0.75 7.3138
0.80 7.3388
0.85 7.3704
0.90 7.3939
0.95 7.4181
1.00 7.4379
On 15 June 2018, you are required to value a bond with a coupon of 11.04%, maturing on 
10 April 2019. The face value of the bond is `100. Given the yield curve information in the 
table above, what is the value of the bond? (Use linear interpolation to find discounting rates 
for each of the component cash flows.)
 Answer: We have to first find the cash flows of the bond up to the date of maturity, and the 
distance in years of each of the cash flows to the settlement date. We use the coupncd function 
and find that there are 115 days to the first coupon and 295 days to the next coupon, which 
translate into 0.319444 years and 0.819444 years respectively.
The discount rate for these two tenors can be found by interpolation from the term structure 
information that is given in the table above. The rate for the tenor of 0.319444 years can be 
found by linear interpolation between the tenors 0.3 and 0.35 years, as follows:
= 7.0257 + (7.0487 – 7.0257)*(0.31944 – 0.3)/(0.35 – 0.3) = 7.0346%
Similarly the rate for the tenor of 0.819444 can be found by interpolation between the tenors 
0.8 and 0.85 years, as follows:
= 7.3388 + (7.3704 – 7.3388)*(0.81944 – 0.8)/(0.85–0.8) = 7.3511%
We can now value the bond by discounting the cash flows using these rates, as follows:
5.52/(1.070346)0.31944 + 105.52/(1.073511)0.81944
= `104.9627
This is the value of the bond, computed by discounting each cash flow by the interpolated 
yield from the term structure of interest rates.
Treasury Management.indb 413 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
414 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
15. DURATION
1. The duration of a coupon paying bond is always lower than its term to maturity, because:
(a) Since duration is the measure of average maturity, it has to be lower than the tenor.
(b) Duration measures the weighted maturity, and therefore cannot be compared to tenor of 
a bond.
(c) As long as some cash flows are received prior to maturity, the weightage of the terminal 
cash flow cannot be 1.
 Answer: c
2. On 11 July 2018, the following is the market value of the bonds in your portfolio. (Assume 
equal holdings in all the bonds.) What is the duration of the portfolio?
Coupon Maturity date Price on 11 July 2018 (`)
(%)
11.68 6-Aug-2019 104.34
11.00 23-May-2020 105.74
12.50 23-Mar-2021 111.63
11.98 8-Sep-2022 111.8
11.19 12-Aug-2023 111.83
11.68 10-Apr-2024 114.4
11.90 28-May-2025 116.6
 Answer: We can use the Yield function to find the YTM and the Duration Function to compute 
duration, as follows: 
Coupon (%) Maturity Date Market Price on YTM (%) Duration (Yrs)
      11-Jul-2018 (`) 
11.68 6-Aug-2019 104.34 7.3728% 0.990695
11.00 23-May-2020 105.74 7.6309% 1.720562
12.50 23-Mar-2021 111.63 7.6399% 2.318881
11.98 8-Sep-2022 111.8 7.6917% 2.653983
11.19 12-Aug-2023 111.83 7.7524% 3.297774
11.68 10-Apr-2024 114.4 7.9700% 3.753991
11.90 28-May-2025 116.6 8.2733% 4.463083 
Portfolio Value: 776.34
Portfolio Duration: 2.781662
The portfolio duration is the weighted duration of the bonds, using the market values as 
weights. It is computed as Sum product (market price, duration)/sum (market price)
= 2.7816
3. Using the same data as in Question 2, if the expectation is that yield would increase by 
50 basis points, what would be the expected change in the value of the portfolio?
 Answer: We can use the mduration function in Excel, and compute the modified duration of 
all the bonds, and find the portfolio modified duration, using a similar method as in Answer 2. 
We would arrive at a number 2.6763 as the portfolio’s modified duration.
A 50bp increase in yield will reduce the value of the portfolio by 2.6763*.50 = 1.3381%
Treasury Management.indb 414 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 415 415
In rupee terms that would be `776.34 * 1.3381% = `10.3888
The portfolio price will reduced by `10.3888/-.
16. FIXED INCOME DERIVATIVES
1. An interest rate swap transforms the nature of ___________.
(a) an existing liability only
(b) an existing asset only
(c) a notional liability or an asset
(d) an existing liability or an asset
 Answer: d
2. A swap can be interpreted as a strip of ___________.
(a) fixed rate agreements only
(b) future contracts only
(c) fixed rate agreements or future contracts
(d) None of the above
 Answer: c
3. Forward rates cannot be ___________.
(a) positive
(b) negative
(c) zero
(d) higher than spot rate
 Answer: b
Treasury Management.indb 415 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
‘Securities’ and ‘Securities Markets’
Securities are financial instruments issued to raise funds. The primary function of the securities 
markets is to enable the flow of capital from those that have it to those that need it. Securities market 
help in transfer of resources from those with idle resources to others who have a productive need 
for them. Securities markets provide channels for allocation of savings to investments and thereby 
decouple these two activities. As a result, the savers and investors are not constrained by their 
individual abilities, but by the economy’s abilities to invest and save respectively, which inevitably 
enhances savings and investment in the economy.
Concept of ‘Risk’ and ‘Return’
Return refers to the benefit the investor will receive from investing in the security. Risk refers to the 
possibility that the expected returns may not materialise. For example, a company may seek capital 
from an investor by issuing a bond. A bond is a debt security, which means it represents a borrowing 
of the company. The security will be issued for a specific period, at the end of which the amount 
borrowed will be repaid to the investor. The return will be in the form of interest, paid periodically 
to the investor, at a rate and frequency specified in the security. The risk is that the company may 
fall into bad times and default on the payment of interest or return of principal.
The Structure of Indian Securities Markets
The market in which securities are issued, purchased by investors, and subsequently transferred 
among investors is called the securities market. The securities market has two interdependent and 
inseparable segments, viz., the primary market and secondary market. The primary market, also called 
the new issue market, is where issuers raise capital by issuing securities to investors. The secondary 
market also called the stock exchange facilitates trade in already-issued securities, thereby enabling 
investors to exit from an investment. The risk in a security investment is transferred from one investor 
(seller) to another (buyer) in the secondary markets. The primary market creates financial assets, 
and the secondary market makes them marketable.
INDIAN SECURITIES 
MARKETS
Appendix
C
Treasury Management.indb 416 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 417 417
The Issuers in Indian Securities Markets
Issuers are organizations that raise money by issuing securities. They may have short-term and 
long-term need for capital, and they issue securities based on their need, their ability to service the 
securities. Some of the common issuers in the Indian Securities Markets are:
1. Companies issue securities to raise short and long term capital for conducting their business 
operations.
2. Central and state governments issue debt securities to meet their requirements for short 
and long term funds to meet their deficits. Deficit is the extent to which the expense of the 
government is not met by its income from taxes and other sources.
3. Local governments and municipalities may also issue debt securities to meet their development 
needs. Government agencies do not issue equity securities.
4. Financial institutions and banks may issue equity or debt securities for their capital needs 
beyond their normal sources of funding from deposits and government grants.
5. Public sector companies which are owned by the government may issue securities to public 
investors as part of the disinvestment program of the government, when the government 
decides to offer its holding of these securities to public investors.
6. Mutual funds issue units of a scheme to investors to mobilise money and invest them on behalf 
of investors in securities.
Role of Stock Brokers and Sub-brokers in the Securities Markets
Stock brokers are registered trading members of stock exchanges. They sell new issuance of securities 
to investors. They put through the buy and sell transactions of investors on stock exchanges. All 
secondary market transactions on stock exchanges have to be conducted through registered brokers. 
Sub-brokers help in reaching the services of brokers to a larger number of investors. Several brokers 
provide research, analysis and recommendations about securities to buy and sell, to their investors. 
Brokers may also enable screen-based electronic trading of securities for their investors, or support 
investor orders over phone. Brokers earn a commission for their services.
Asset Management Company & Portfolio Managers
Asset management company and portfolio managers are investment specialists who offer their services 
in selecting and managing a portfolio of securities. Asset management companies are permitted to 
offer securities (called units) that represent participation in a pool of money, which is used to create 
the portfolio. Portfolio managers do not offer any security and are not permitted to pool the money 
collected from investors. They act on behalf of the investor in creating and managing a portfolio. 
Both asset managers and portfolio managers charge the investor a fee for their services, and may 
engage other security market intermediaries such as brokers, registrars, and custodians in conducting 
their functions.
Treasury Management.indb 417 6/19/2018 6:24:16 PM
418 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Role of Merchant Bankers in Securities Markets
Merchant bankers also called as issue managers, investment bankers, or lead managers help an 
issuer access the security market with an issuance of securities. They evaluate the capital needs, 
structure an appropriate instrument, get involved in pricing the instrument, and manage the entire 
issue process until the securities are issued and listed on a stock exchange. They engage other 
intermediaries such as registrars, brokers, bankers, underwriters and credit rating agencies in 
managing the issue process.
Role of Underwriters in the Securities Markets
Underwriters are primary market specialists who promise to pick up that portion of an offer of 
securities which may not be bought by investors. They serve an important function in the primary 
market, providing the issuer the comfort that if the securities being offered do not elicit the desired 
demand, the underwriters will step in and buy the securities. The specialist underwriters in the 
government bond market are called primary dealers.
The role of Credit Rating Agencies in the Securities Markets
Credit rating agencies evaluate a debt security to provide a professional opinion about the ability of 
the issuer to meet the obligations for payment of interest and return of principal as indicated in the 
security. They use rating symbols to rank debt issues, which enable investors to assess the default 
risk in a security.
The role of an Investment Adviser
Investment adviser work with investors to help them make a choice of securities that they can buy, 
based on an assessment of their needs, time horizon return expectation and ability to bear risk. They 
may also be involved in creating financial plans for investors, where they define the goals for which 
investors need to save money and propose appropriate investment strategies to meet the defined goals.
Various regulators of the Indian Securities Markets
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), a statutory body appointed by an Act of 
Parliament (SEBI Act, 1992), is the chief regulator of securities markets in India. SEBI functions 
under the Ministry of Finance. The main objective of SEBI is to facilitate growth and development 
of the capital markets and to ensure that the interests of investors are protected. The Securities 
Contracts Regulation Act, 1956 is administered by SEBI.
SEBI has codified and notified regulations that cover all activities and intermediaries in the securities 
markets.
Treasury Management.indb 418 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 419 419
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
The Reserve Bank of India regulates the money market segment of securities market. As the manager 
of the government’s borrowing program, RBI is the issue manager for the government. It controls and 
regulates the government securities market. RBI is also the regulator of the Indian banking system 
and ensures that banks follow prudential norms in their operations. RBI also conducts the monetary, 
forex and credit policies, and its actions in these markets influences the supply of money and credit 
in the system, which in turn impact the interest rates and borrowing costs of banks, government and 
other issuers of debt securities.
Commonly used indicators while investing in Equity Markets
(a) Price Earning Multiple: The price-earnings ratio or the PE multiple is a valuation measure 
that indicates how much the market values per rupee of earning of a company. It is 
computed as:
 Market price per share/Earnings per share
Earnings per share are the profit after taxes divided by the number of shares. It indicates the 
amount of profit that company has earned, for every share it has issued. PE is represented as 
a multiple. When one refers to a stock was trading at 12x, it means the stocks is trading at 
twelve times its earnings.
(b) Price to Book Value (PBV): The PBV ratio compares the market price of the stock with its 
book value. It is computed as market price per share upon book value per share.
The book value is the accounting value per share, in the books of the company. It represents 
the net worth (capital plus reserves) per share. If the market price of the stock were lower 
than the book value and the PBV is less than one, the stock may be undervalued. In a bullish 
market when prices move up rapidly, the PBV would drop, indicating rich valuation in the 
market.
(c) Dividend Yield: Dividend is declared as a percentage of the face value of the shares. A 40% 
dividend declared by company will translate into a dividend of `4 per share with a face value 
of `10 (10*40% = .4). If the share was trading in the stock market for a price of `200 per share, 
this means a dividend yield of 2%.
The dividend declared by a company is a percentage of the face value of its shares. When the 
dividend received by an investor is compared to the market price of the share, it is called the 
dividend yield of the share.
Zero Coupon Bonds
A zero coupon bond does not pay any coupons during the term of the bond. The bond is issued at a 
discount to the face value, and redeemed at face value. The effective interest earned is the difference 
between face value and the discounted issue price. A zero coupon bond with a long maturity is issued 
at a very big discount to the face value. Such bonds are also known as deep discount bonds.
Treasury Management.indb 419 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
420 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Floating Rate Bonds
Floating rate bonds are instruments where the interest rate is not fixed, but re-set periodically with 
reference to a pre-decided benchmark rate. For instance, a company can issue a 5-year floating rate 
bond, with the rates being reset semi-annually at 50 basis points above the 1-year yield on central 
government securities. Every six months, the 1-year benchmark rate on government securities is 
ascertained from the prevailing market prices. The coupon rate the company would pay for the next 
six months is calculated as this benchmark rate plus 50 basis points.
Floating rate bonds are also known as variable rate bonds and adjustable rate bonds.
Callable Bonds and Puttable Bonds
Callable bonds allow the issuer to redeem the bonds prior to their original maturity date. Such bonds 
have a call option in the bond contract, which lets the issuer alter the tenor of the security. For example, 
a 10-year bond may be issued with call options at the end of the 5th year. Such options give issuers 
more flexibility in managing their debt capital. If interest rates decline, an issuer can redeem a callable 
bond and re-issue fresh bonds at a lower interest rate.
A Puttable bond gives the investor the right to seek redemption from the issuer before the original 
maturity date. For example, a 7-year bond may have a put option at the end of the 5th year. If interest 
rates have risen, Puttable bonds give investors the ability to exit from low-coupon bonds and reinvest in higher coupon bonds.
Various Money Market Securities
a) Repos/reverse repos: A repo is a transaction in which one participant borrows money at a 
pre-determined rate against the collateral of eligible security for a specified period of time. 
A reverse repo is a lending transaction; a repo in the books of the borrower is a reverse repo 
in the books of the lender. Eligible collateral for repos and reverse repos are central and state 
government securities and select corporate bonds.
b) Collateralized Borrowing and Lending Obligation (CBLO): A Collateralized Borrowing 
and Lending Obligation (CBLO) is an instrument used to lend and borrow for short periods, 
typically one to three days. The debt is fully secured against the collateral of government 
securities. CBLO is a standardized and traded repo.
c) Certificates of Deposits (CDs): Certificates of Deposits (CDs) are short term tradable deposits 
issued by banks to raise funds. CDs are different from regular bank deposits because they 
involve creation of securities. This makes the CD transferable before maturity. However, actual 
trading in CDs is extremely limited with most investors preferring to hold them to maturity.
d) Treasury Bills: The central government borrows extensively in the money market for its 
daily operations through the issue of short-term debt securities called Treasury bills (T-bills). 
T-bills are issued for maturities of 91 days, 182 days and 364 days. They are issued through 
an auction process managed by the RBI and listed soon after issue. Banks, mutual funds, 
insurance companies, provident funds, primary dealers and FIs bid in these auctions.
Treasury Management.indb 420 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 421 421
e) Commercial Paper: Companies and institutions raise short-term funds in the money market 
through the issue of commercial paper (CP). Though CPs are required to have a credit rating, 
they are unsecured corporate loans with a limited secondary market. They can be issued for 
various maturities of up to 364 days, but the 90-day CP is the most popular.
Concept of Time Value of Money
A rupee in hand today is more valuable than a rupee obtained in future. For example, let us compare 
receiving `1000 today, and receiving it after 2 years. If today’s `1000 is placed in a 2 year bank 
deposit earning simple interest of 8%, then it will be worth `1080 (principal 1000 + interest 80) at 
the end of 2 years. This makes today’s `1000 more valuable than the future `1000. The value of 
currently available funds over funds received in the future is due to the return that can be earned 
by investing current funds. If cash flows that are receivable at different points in time have to be 
compared, the time value of money has to be taken into account.
Relationship between Bond Yields and prices
The bond price is the present value of cash inflows from the bond, discounted by the market yield. So 
bond price, coupon rate and yield are all connected. Given any two, the third can be easily calculated.
In the bond markets, it is the price of a bond that is known and quoted. Information on coupon 
rate and redemption are also available. Given the bond price and its coupon, the yield can be 
computed.
If the investor purchases the bond at a price lower than the face value, then he has acquired it at a 
price cheaper than the originally issued price. As a result yield will be higher than the coupon rate. 
If the investor purchases the bond at a price higher than the face value, then he has acquired it at a 
higher price than the original face value, so his yield will be lower than the coupon rate.
There is an inverse relationship between yield and price of a bond. As bond price falls, the yield to 
the investor goes up. This is because as the discounting rate (or yield) is increased, the final present 
value (price) reduces.
Yield to Maturity
The rate which equates the present value of future cash flows from a bond with the current price 
of the bond is called the Yield to Maturity (YTM) of the bond. As bond price changes, so does the 
YTM. Thus, YTM is the discount rate implied in the bond value at a point in time. YTM is a popular 
and widely used method for computing the return on a bond investment. Yield quotations in the debt 
market usually refer to YTM.
Initial Public Offer (IPO)
The first public offer of shares made by a company is called an Initial Public Offer (IPO). When a 
company makes an IPO the shares of the company becomes widely held and there is a change in 
Treasury Management.indb 421 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
422 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
the shareholding pattern. The shares which were privately held by promoters are now held by retail 
investors, institutions, promoters etc. An IPO can either be a fresh issue of shares by the company 
or it can be an offer for sale to the public by any of the existing shareholders, such as the promoters 
or financial institutions.
• Fresh Issue of Shares
New shares are issued by the company to public investors. The issued share capital of the company 
increases. The percentage holding of existing shareholders will come down due to the issuance of 
new shares.
• Offer for Sale
Existing shareholders such as promoters or financial institutions offer a part of their holding to the 
public investors. The share capital of the company does not change since the company is not making 
a new issue of shares. The proceeds from the IPO go to the existing shareholders who are selling 
the shares and not to the company. The holding of the existing shareholders in the share capital of 
the company will reduce.
Follow-on Public Offer (FPO)
A follow-on public offer is made by an issuer that has already made an IPO in the past and now 
makes a further issue of securities to the public. A company can make a further issue of shares if 
the aggregate of the proposed issue and all the other issues made in a financial year does not exceed 
5 times the pre-issue net worth.
When a company wants additional capital for growth or to redo its capital structure by retiring debt, 
it raises equity capital through a fresh issue of capital in a follow-on public offer.
Rights Issue of Shares
Whenever a company makes a fresh issue of shares, it has an impact on the existing shareholders 
since their proportionate holding in the share capital of the company gets diluted. For example, 
a company may have 10 lakhs shares of `10 each, amounting to an issued and paid-up capital of 
`1 crore. If it issues another 10 lakhs shares, to increase its capital, the proportion held by existing 
shareholders will come down by half, as the issued and paid up capital has doubled. This is called 
as dilution of holdings. To prevent this, section 81 of the Company’s Act requires that a company 
which wants to raise more capital through an issue of shares must first offer them to the existing 
shareholders. Such an offer of shares is called a rights issue.
‘Green Shoe Option’
The Green Shoe Option (GSO) in a public offer is used by companies to provide stability to price 
of the share in the secondary market immediately on listing. A company, which opts for Green Shoe 
Treasury Management.indb 422 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 423 423
option can allot additional shares not exceeding 15% of the issue size, to the general public who 
have subscribed in the issue. The proceeds from this additional allotment will be kept in a separate 
bank account and used to buy shares in the secondary markets once the shares are listed, in case the 
price falls below the issue price. This is expected to provide support to the price of the shares. This 
price stabilization activity will be done by an entity appointed for this purpose.
Mutual Fund
Mutual fund is a vehicle to mobilize moneys from investors, to invest in different markets and 
securities, in line with the investment objectives agreed upon, between the mutual fund and the 
investors. In other words, through investment in a mutual fund, a small investor can avail of 
professional fund management services offered by an asset management company.
Equity Mutual Funds
Equity funds invest in a portfolio of equity shares and equity related instruments. The return and risk 
of the fund will be similar to investing in equity. Investors in equity funds seek growth and capital 
appreciation as the primary objective and should ideally have a long investment horizon that will 
allow time for the investment to appreciate in value and not be affected by short-term fluctuations.
• Diversified equity funds invest across segments, sectors and sizes of companies. An index 
fund is a passive diversified equity fund, invested in the same stocks in the same weighting 
as an equity market index. An actively managed diversified equity fund modifies the weights 
across sectors, and may also choose non-index stocks to outperform the index.
• Large-cap equity funds invest in stocks of large, liquid blue-chip companies with stable 
performance and returns. The performance of a large stock fund is compared with a narrow 
index such as the Sensex or Nifty, which the fund seeks to beat.
• Mid-cap funds invest in mid-cap companies that have the potential for greater growth and 
returns. However, the risk in the funds is higher because the companies they invest in have a 
greater risk to their revenues and profits.
• Small-cap funds invest in companies with small market capitalisation with intent of benefitting 
from the higher gains in the price of stocks of smaller companies they may benefit from newer 
business opportunities. The risks are also higher in small-cap funds.
• Sector funds invest in companies that belong to a particular sector such as technology or 
banking. The risk is higher in sector funds because of lesser diversification since such stocks 
are by definition concentrated in a particular sector.
• Thematic funds invest in stocks of companies which may be defined by a unifying underlying 
theme. For example, infrastructure funds invest in stocks in the infrastructure sector, across 
construction, cement, banking and logistics. They are more diversified than sector funds but 
more concentrated than a diversified equity fund.
• Equity funds may also feature specific investment strategies. Value funds invest in stocks of 
good companies selling at cheaper prices; dividend yield funds invest in stocks that pay a 
regular dividend; special situation funds invest in stocks that show the promise of a turnaround.
Treasury Management.indb 423 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
424 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Debt Mutual Funds
Debt funds invest in debt securities issued by the government, public sector units, banks and private 
limited companies. Debt securities may have different features. They may have credit risk or risk of 
default, short-term or long-term duration. Debt funds are offered in three broad categories:
• Short term funds: These funds focus primarily on accrual income and shorter maturity, and 
have a lower risk and stable return.
i. Liquid funds can only invest in securities with not more than 91 days to maturity. This is 
a regulatory requirement. These funds primarily earn coupon income in line with current 
market rates
ii. Ultra-short term funds hold a portfolio similar to liquid funds but with a slightly higher 
maturity to benefit from higher coupon income.
iii. Short-term Gilt funds invest in short-term government securities such as treasury bills of 
the government.
iv. Short-Term Plan invest in a portfolio of short-term debt securities primarily to earn coupon 
income but may also hold some longer term securities to benefit from appreciation in price.
• Long term funds: These funds focus on MTM gains and longer maturity, and have a higher 
risk and higher return.
i. Gilt funds invest in a portfolio of long-term government securities. The coupon income 
earned is lower than corporate bonds of comparable tenor since there is no credit risk in 
the securities. The MTM gains and losses can be high since these securities have long 
tenors.
ii. Income funds invest in a combination of corporate bonds and government securities. They 
earn a higher coupon income from the credit risk in corporate bonds held. The gains or 
losses from MTM will depend upon the tenor of the securities held.
• Dynamic funds:These funds shift their focus between short and long term debt instruments, 
depending on the expectation for interest rate, and provide moderately higher return than 
short term funds, at a moderately lower risk than long term debt funds
Fixed Maturity Plans
Fixed Maturity Plans (FMP) are closed-end funds that invest in securities whose maturity matches 
the term of the scheme. The scheme and the securities that it holds mature together at the end of the 
stated tenor. The fund pays out the maturity proceeds of the portfolio on the closing date. Investors 
who are able to hold the scheme to maturity will be able to benefit from the returns of the FMP that 
are locked in when the portfolio is created. There is no risk of the value of the securities being lower 
at the time the fund matures (unless there is a default) since the instruments will also be redeemed 
at their face value on maturity.
i. The time for which the investor is willing to invest must match the term of the fund.
ii. The primary risk in FMPs is credit risk from a possible default by the issuer.
iii. As closed-end funds these schemes are listed on stock exchanges where they may be traded 
at prices related to the NAV.
Treasury Management.indb 424 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 425 425
Hybrid Funds
Hybrid funds hold a portfolio of equity and debt securities. The investment objective of the fund will 
determine the allocation of the portfolio between the two asset classes. A hybrid fund is a debt and 
an equity fund, rolled into one. The risk in a hybrid fund will primarily depend upon the allocation 
between equity and debt, and the relative performance of these asset classes. The higher the equity 
component in the portfolio, the greater will be the overall risk.
• Equity-Oriented Hybrid Funds
Equity-oriented hybrid funds have a greater exposure to equity in their portfolio as compared to debt. 
Balanced funds are an example of equity-oriented funds. The coupon income from the debt portion 
will stabilize the risky returns from the equity component. However the higher equity component in 
the portfolio means the fund’s overall returns will depend on the performance of the equity markets 
and will also fluctuate more.
• Debt-Oriented Hybrid Funds
Debt-oriented hybrid funds have a higher proportion of their portfolio allotted to debt. Monthly 
Income Plans are such funds. The returns are primarily from the debt portion and will depend upon 
the type debt securities held: short or long term, low or high credit risk. The equity portion augments 
the return from debt so that the fund is able to generate better returns than a pure debt fund.
• Asset Allocation Funds
These funds invest in both equity and debt but without a pre-specified allocation as in the case of 
other hybrid funds. The fund manager takes a view on which type of investment is expected to do 
well and will tilt the allocation towards either asset class. Such funds may also hold 100% in equity 
or debt. Examples of asset allocation fund include life stage funds that invest across asset classes 
suitable to the age of the investor. Such funds will have a higher allocation to equity in the initial 
years and reduce equity exposure and increase debt exposure as the age advances.
Equity Linked Savings Schemes (ELSS)
Equity Linked Savings Schemes (ELSS) are equity funds that provide tax benefits in the form of 
deductions under section 80(c) for the amount invested.
• The limit for claiming deduction is `1 lakh.
• ELSS have to hold at least 80% of the investment portfolio in equity securities.
• Investments are subject to a three-year lock-in on the investments made to get the tax benefit.
Exchange Traded Funds
Exchange traded funds (ETF) are a type of mutual fund that combines features of an open-ended 
fund and a stock. Following are its features:
• Units are issued directly to investors when the scheme is launched.
• Post this period, units are listed on a stock exchange like a stock and traded.
Treasury Management.indb 425 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
426 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Units purchased at the time of launch or bought from the stock markets are credited to the 
demat account of the investor.
• Transactions are done through brokers of the exchange. Investors need a broking account and 
a demat account to invest in ETFs.
• The prices of the ETF units on the stock exchange will be linked to the NAV of the fund, but 
prices are available on a real-time basis depending on trading volume on stock exchanges.
Gold Exchange Traded Funds
Gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) are ETFs with gold as the underlying asset. The following 
are the features:
• It provides a way to hold gold in electronic rather than in physical form.
• Typically each unit of ETF represents one gram of gold.
• The fund holds physical gold and gold receipts representing the units issued.
• Price of the units will move in line with the price of gold.
International Funds
International funds invest in securities listed on markets outside India. The type of securities that 
the fund can invest in is specified by the regulator SEBI and includes equity shares and debt -listed 
abroad, units of mutual funds and ETFs issued abroad and ADRs and GDRs of Indian companies 
listed abroad. The funds can also invest part of the portfolio in the Indian markets.
Fund of Funds (FoFs)
FoFs invests in other funds. The FoF selects funds that meets its investment objectives and invests 
in them. Its portfolio is not made up of securities, but is a portfolio of other funds. Most FoFs invest 
in schemes of the same mutual fund. Some FoFs consider schemes across fund houses which meets 
the FoFs investment objective for inclusion in the portfolio.
Treasury Management.indb 426 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS 427
1. Q. What is the Debt Market?
A. The Debt Market is the market where fixed income securities of various types and features 
are issued and traded. Debt Markets are therefore, markets for fixed income securities 
issued by Central and State Governments, Municipal Corporations, Govt. bodies and 
commercial entities like Financial Institutions, Banks, Public Sector Units, Public Ltd. 
companies and also structured finance instruments.
2. Q. What is the Money Market?
A. The Money Market is basically concerned with the issue and trading of securities with 
short term maturities or quasi-money instruments. The Instruments traded in the moneymarket are Treasury Bills, Certificates of Deposits (CDs), Commercial Paper (CPs), Bills 
of Exchange and other such instruments of short-term maturities (i.e., not exceeding 
1 year with regard to the original maturity)
3. Q. Why should one invest in fixed income securities?
A. Fixed Income securities offer a predictable stream of payments by way of interest and 
repayment of principal at the maturity of the instrument. The debt securities are issued 
by the eligible entities against the moneys borrowed by them from the investors in these 
instruments. Therefore, most debt securities carry a fixed charge on the assets of the 
entity and generally enjoy a reasonable degree of safety by way of the security of the 
fixed and/or movable assets of the company.
• The investors benefit by investing in fixed income securities as they preserve and 
increase their invested capital and also ensure the receipt of regular interest income.
• The investors can even neutralize the default risk on their investments by investing 
in Govt. securities, which are normally referred to as risk-free investments due to 
the sovereign guarantee on these instruments.
• The prices of Debt securities display a lower average volatility as compared to the 
prices of other financial securities and ensure the greater safety of accompanying 
investments.
BASICS OF DEBT 
MARKETS
Appendix
D
Treasury Management.indb 427 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
428 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Debt securities enable wide-based and efficient portfolio diversification and thus 
assist in portfolio risk-mitigation.
4. Q. What are the advantages of investing in Government Securities 
(G-Secs)?
A. The Zero Default Risk of the G-Secs. offer one of the best reasons for investments in 
G-secs so that it enjoys the greatest amount of security possible. The other advantages 
of investing in G-Secs are:
• Greater safety and lower volatility as compared to other financial instruments.
• Variations possible in the structure of instruments like Index linked Bonds, STRIPS
• Higher leverage available in case of borrowings against G-Secs.
• No TDS on interest payments.
• Tax exemption for interest earned on G-Secs. up to `3000/- over and above the limit 
of `12000/- under Section 80L (as amended in the latest Budget).
• Greater diversification opportunities.
• Adequate trading opportunities with continuing volatility expected in interest rates 
the world over.
5. Q. Who can issue fixed income securities?
A. The Zero Default Risk of the G-Secs. offer one of the best reasons for investments in 
G-secs so that it enjoys the greatest amount of security possible. The other advantages 
of investing in G-Secs are:
• Greater safety and lower volatility as compared to other financial instruments.
• Variations possible in the structure of instruments like Index linked Bonds, STRIPS
• Higher leverage available in case of borrowings against G-Secs.
• No TDS on interest payments.
• Tax exemption for interest earned on G-Secs. up to `3000/- over and above the limit of 
`12000/- under Section 80L (as amended in the latest Budget).
• Greater diversification opportunities.
• Adequate trading opportunities with continuing volatility expected in interest rates the 
world over.
6. Q. What are the different types of instruments, which are normally 
traded in this market?
A. The instruments traded can be classified into the following segments based on the 
characteristics of the identity of the issuer of these securities: The G-secs are referred to 
as SLR securities in the Indian markets as they are eligible securities for the maintenance 
of the SLR ratio by the Banks. The other non-Govt securities are called Non-SLR 
securities. 
Treasury Management.indb 428 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 429 429
7. Q. What are the benefits of an efficient Debt Market to the financial 
system and the economy?
A. The key role of the debt markets in the Indian Economy stems from the following reasons:
• Efficient mobilization and allocation of resources in the economy.
• Financing the development activities of the Government.
• Transmitting signals for implementation of the monetary policy.
• Facilitating liquidity management in tune with overall short term and long term 
objectives.
Since the Government Securities are issued to meet the short term and long term financial 
needs of the government, they are not only used as instruments for raising debt, but have 
emerged as key instruments for internal debt management, monetary management and 
short term liquidity management. The returns earned on the government securities are 
normally taken as the benchmark rates of returns and are referred to as the risk free return 
in financial theory. The Risk Free rate obtained from the G-sec rates are often used to 
price the other non-govt. securities in the financial markets.
• Reduction in the borrowing cost of the Government and enable mobilization of 
resources at a reasonable cost.
• Provide greater funding avenues to public-sector and private sector projects and 
reduce the pressure on institutional financing.
• Enhanced mobilization of resources by unlocking illiquid retail investments like 
gold.
• Development of heterogeneity of market participants.
• Assist in development of a reliable yield curve and the term structure of interest 
rates.
9. Q. What are the risks in the case of debt securities?
A. The following are the risks associated with debt securities:
• Default Risk: This can be defined as the risk that an issuer of a bond may be unable 
to make timely payment of interest or principal on a debt security or to otherwise 
comply with the provisions of a bond indenture and is also referred to as credit risk.
• Interest Rate Risk: can be defined as the risk emerging from an adverse change 
in the interest rate prevalent in the market so as to affect the yield on the existing 
instruments. A good case would be an upswing in the prevailing interest rate scenario 
leading to a situation where the investors’ money is locked at lower rates whereas 
if he had waited and invested in the changed interest rate scenario, he would have 
earned more.
• Reinvestment Rate Risk: can be defined as the probability of a fall in the interest 
rate resulting in a lack of options to invest the interest received at regular intervals 
at higher rates at comparable rates in the market.
Treasury Management.indb 429 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
430 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The following are the risks associated with trading in debt securities:
•	 Counter Party Risk: is the normal risk associated with any transaction and refers to the
failure or inability of the opposite party to the contract to deliver either the promised
security or the sale-value at the time of settlement.
•	 Price Risk: refers to the possibility of not being able to receive the expected price on
any order due to an adverse movement in the prices.
MARKET STRUCTURE
10. Q. What is the trading structure in the Wholesale Debt Market?
A.	 The Debt Markets in India and all around the world are dominated by Government
securities, which account for between 50–75% of the trading volumes and the market
capitalization in all markets. Government securities (G-Secs) account for 70–75% of
the outstanding value of issued securities and 90–95% of the trading volumes in the
Indian Debt Markets. State Government securities & Treasury Bills account for around
3–4 % of the daily trading volumes. The trading activity in the G-Sec. Market is also
very concentrated currently (in terms of liquidity of the outstanding G-Secs.) with the
top 10 liquid securities accounting for around 70% of the daily volumes.
11. Q. Who are the main investors of Govt. Securities in India? 
A.  Traditionally, the Banks have been the largest category of investors in G-secs accounting
for more than 60% of the transactions in the Wholesale Debt Market. The Banks are a
prime and captive investor base for G-secs as they are normally required to maintain
25% of their net time and demand liabilities as SLR but it has been observed that the
banks normally invest 10% to 15% more than the normal requirement in Government
Securities because of the following requirements:
•	 Risk Free nature of the Government Securities.
•	 Greater returns in G-Secs as compared to other investments of comparable
nature.
12. Q. Who regulates the fixed income markets?
A.	 The issue and trading of fixed income securities by each of these entities are regulated by
different  bodiesin India. For eg: Governmentsecurities and issues by Banks, Institutions
are regulated by the RBI. The issue of non-government securities comprising basically
issues of Corporate Debt is regulated by SEBI.
13. Q. What are the main features of G-Secs and T-Bills in India?
A.	 All G-Secs in India currently have a face value of `100/- and are issued by the RBI
on behalf of the Government of India. All G-Secs are normally coupon (Interest rate)
bearing and have semi-annual coupon or interest payments with a tenor of between 5 to
Appendices.indd 430 6/21/2018 3:26:50 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 431 431
30 years. This may change according to the structure of the Instrument. Eg: a 11.50% 
GOI 2005 security will carry a coupon rate(Interest Rate) of 11.50% p.a. on a face 
value per unit of `100/- payable semi-annually and maturing in the year 2005. Treasury 
Bills are for short-term instruments issued by the RBI for the Govt. for financing the 
temporary funding requirements and are issued for maturities of 91 Days and 364 Days. 
T-Bills have a face value of `100 but have no coupon (no interest payment). T-Bills are 
instead issued at a discount to the face value (say @ `95) and redeemed at par (`100). 
The difference of `5 (100 – 95) represents the return to the investor obtained at the end 
of the maturity period. State Government securities are also issued by RBI on behalf of 
each of the state governments and are coupon-bearing bonds with a face value of `100 
and a fixed tenor. They account for 3–4 % of the daily trading volumes. 
14. Q. What are the segments in the secondary debt market?
A. The segments in the secondary debt market based on the characteristics of the investors 
and the structure of the market are:
• Wholesale Debt Market – where the investors are mostly Banks, Financial 
Institutions, the RBI, Primary Dealers, Insurance companies, MFs, Corporates and 
FIIs.
• Retail Debt Market involving participation by individual investors, provident funds, 
pension funds, private trusts, NBFCs and other legal entities in addition to the 
wholesale investor classes.
15. Q. What is the structure of the Wholesale Debt Market?
A. The Debt Market is today in the nature of a negotiated deal market where most of the 
deals take place through telephones and are reported to the Exchange for confirmation. 
It is therefore in the nature of a wholesale market. 
16. Q. Who are the most prominent investors in the Wholesale Debt 
Market in India?
A. The Commercial Banks and the Financial Institutions are the most prominent participants 
in the   Wholesale Debt Market in India. During the past few years, the investor base 
has been widened to   include Co-operative Banks, Investment Institutions, cash rich 
corporates, Non-Banking Finance   companies, Mutual Funds and high net-worth 
individuals. FIIs have also been permitted to invest 100%   of their funds in the debt 
market, which is a significant increase from the earlier limit of 30%. The   government 
also allowed in 1998–99 the FIIs to invest in T-bills with a view towards broadbasing 
the   investor base of the same. 
17. Q. What is the issuance process of G-secs?
A. G-secs are issued by RBI in either a yield-based (participants bid for the coupon payable) 
or price-based (participants bid a price for a bond with a fixed coupon) auction basis. 
Treasury Management.indb 431 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
432 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Auction can be either a Multiple price (participants get allotments at their quoted 
prices/yields) Auction or a Uniform price (all participants get allotments at the same 
price). RBI has recently announced a non-competitive bidding facility for retail investors 
in G-Secs through which non-competitive bids will be allowed up to 5 percent of the 
notified amount in the specified auctions of dated securities. 
18. Q. What are the types of trades in the Wholesale Debt Market?
A. There are normally two types of transactions, which are executed in the Wholesale Debt 
Market:
• An outright sale or purchase and
• A Repo trade
19. Q. What is a Repo trade and how is it different from a normal buy or 
sell transaction?
A. An outright Buy or sell transaction is a one where there is no intended reversal of the 
trade at the point of execution of the trade. The Buy or sell transaction is an independent 
trade and is in no way connected with any other trade at the same or a later point of time. 
A Ready Forward Trade (which is normally referred to as a Repo trade or a Repurchase 
Agreement ) is a transaction where the said trade is intended to be reversed at a later 
point of time at a rate which will include the interest component for the period between 
the two opposite legs of the transactions. So in such a transaction, one participant sells 
securities to other with an agreement to purchase them back at a later date. The trade is 
called a Repo transaction from the point of view of the seller and it is called a Reverse 
Repo transaction from point of view of the buyer. Repos therefore facilitate creation of 
liquidity by permitting the seller to avail of a specific sum of money (the value of the repo 
trade) for a certain period in lieu of payment of interest by way of the difference between 
the two prices of the two trades. Repos and reverse repos are commonly used in the 
money markets as instruments of short-term liquidity management and can also be termed 
as a collateralised lending and borrowing mechanism. Banks and Financial Institutions 
usually enter into reverse repo transactions to manage their reserve requirements or to 
manage liquidity. 
BOND ANALYTICS
20. Q. What is Yield?
A. Yield refers to the percentage rate of return paid on a stock in the form of dividends, or 
the effective rate of interest paid on a bond or note. There are many different kinds of 
yields depending on the investment scenario and the characteristics of the investment. 
Yield To Maturity (YTM) is the most popular measure of yield in the Debt Markets and 
is the percentage rate of return paid on a bond, note or other fixed income security if 
Treasury Management.indb 432 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 433 433
you buy and hold the security till its maturity date. Current Yield is the coupon divided 
by the Market Price and gives a fair approximation of the present yield. Therefore, 
Current Yield = Coupon of the Security(in %) x Face Value of the Security (viz. 100 
in case of G-Secs.)/Market Price of the Security Eg: Suppose the market price for 
a 10.18% G-Sec 2012 is `120. The current yield on the security will be (0.1018 × 
100)/120 = 8.48% The yield on the government securities is influenced by various 
factors such as level of money supply in the economy, inflation, future interest rate 
expectations, borrowing program of the government & the monetary policy followed 
by the government. 
21. Q. How is the Yield to Maturity computed?
A. The calculation for YTM is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and 
market price. It is the Internal Rate of Return on the bond and can be determined by 
equating the sum of the cash-flows throughout the life of the bond to zero. A critical 
assumption underlying the YTM is that the coupon interest paid over the life of the bond 
is assumed to be reinvested at the same rate. The YTM is basically obtained through a 
trial and error method by determining the value of the entire range of cash-flows for the 
possible range of YTMs so as to find the one rate at which the cash-flows sum up to zero. 
So, say, a G-Sec – 8.00% GOI Loan 2004 with only 2 cash flows remaining to maturity 
as under: Maturity Date: 30th January 2004 Interest Payment Dates: 30th January, 30th 
July and trading currently at `115 for 1 Unit, will have a YTM as follows: Settlement 
Date: 17th March 2003 (Date at which ownership is transferred to the Buyer) Frequency 
of Interest Payments: 2 Day Count Convention: 30/360 (which in MS-EXCEL is taken 
as Basis 4) Yield To Maturity: 4.8626%. The same can be computed from MS-EXCEL 
through the YIELD Formula by input of the parameters given above. It can be checked 
by discounting the said cash-flows, i.e., the two coupons of `8.00 each and the principal 
repayment of `100/- from the interest payment dates and maturity dates to the date of 
settlement.
22. Q. How is the price determined in the debt markets?
A. The price of a bond in the markets is determined by the forces of demand and supply, 
as is the case in any market. The price of a bond in the marketplace also depends on a 
number of other factors and will fluctuate according to changes in
• Economic conditions
• General money market conditions including the state of money supply in the 
economy
• Interest rates prevalent in the market and the rates of new issues
• Future Interest Rate Expectations
• Credit quality of the issuer
There is however, a theoretical underpinning to the determination of the price of 
the bond in the market based on the measure of the yield of the security. 
Treasury Management.indb 433 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
434 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
 23. Q. How is Yield related to the price?
A. Yields and Bond Prices are inversely related. So a rise in price will decrease the yield and 
a fall in the bond price will increase the yield. There will be an immediate and mostly 
predictable effect on the prices of bonds with every change in the level of interest rates.
(The predictability here however refers to the direction of the price change rather than 
the quantum of the change) When the prevailing interest rates in the market rise, the 
prices of outstanding bonds will fall to equate the yield of older bonds into line with 
higher-interest new issues. This will happen as there will be very few takers for the lower 
coupon bonds resulting in a fall in their prices. The prices would fall to an extent where 
the same yield is obtained on the older bonds as is available for the newer bonds. When 
the prevailing interest rates in the market fall, there is an opposite effect. The prices of 
outstanding bonds will rise, until the yield of older bonds is low enough to match the 
lower interest rate on the new bond issues. These fluctuations ensure that the value of 
a bond will never be the same throughout the life of the bond and is likely to be higher 
or lower than its original face value depending on the market interest rate, the time to 
maturity (or call as the case may be) and the coupon rate on the bond.
MARKET STRUCTURE AND TRADING METHODOLOGY IN WDS
24. Q. What is the concept of the broken period interest as regards the 
Debt Market?
A. The concept of the Broken period interest or the accrued interest arises as interest on 
bonds are received after certain fixed intervals of time to the holder who enjoys the 
ownership of the security at that point of time. Therefore an investor who has sold a 
bond which makes half-yearly interest payments three months after the previous interest 
payment date would not receive the interest due to him for these three months from the 
issuer. The interest on these previous three months would be received by the buyer who 
has held it for only the next three months but receive interest for the entire six month 
periods as he happens to be holding the security at the interest payment date. Therefore, 
in case of a transaction in bonds occurring between two interest payment dates, the buyer 
would pay interest to the seller for the period from the last interest payment date up to 
the date of the transaction. The interest thus calculated would include the previous date 
of interest payment but would not include the trade date.
25. Q. What are the conventions followed for the calculation of Accrued 
Interest?
A. The Day Count Convention to be followed for the calculation of Accrued Intetest in case 
of transactions in G-Secs is 30/360. i.e., each month is to be taken as having 30 days and 
each year is to be taken as having 360 days, irrespective of the actual number of days in 
the month. So, months like February, March, January, May, July, August, October and 
December are to be taken as having 30 days. 
Treasury Management.indb 434 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 435 435
26. Q. What is the Clean Price and the Dirty Price in reference to trading 
in G-Secs?
A. G-Secs are traded on a clean price (Trade price) but settled on the dirty price (Trade 
price + Accrued Interest). This happens, as the coupon payments are not discounted in 
the price, as is the case in the other non-govt. debt instruments.
27. Q. How are the Face Value, Trade Value and the settlement value 
different from each other?
A. The Cumulative face Value of the securities in a transaction is the face Value of the 
Transaction and is normally the identifiable feature of each transaction. Say, a transaction 
of `5,00,000 worth of G-Secs will comprise a trade of 5000 G-Secs of `100 each. The 
Trade value is the cumulative price of the traded G-Secs (i.e., no. of securities multiplied 
by the price) Say, the G-Secs referred to above may be traded at `102 each so that the 
Trade Value is `5,10,000 (102 × 5000). The Settlement value will be the trade value 
plus the Accrued Interest. The Accrued Interest per unit of the Bond is calculated as = 
Coupon of Bond x Face Value of the G-Sec. (100) × (No. of Days from Interest Payment 
Date to Settlement Date)/360 In computing the no. of days between the Interest Payment 
Date and the Settlement Date of the trade, only one of the two days is to be included.
28. Q. How can investors in India hold G-Secs?
A. G-Secs can be held in either of the following forms:
• Physical Security (which is mostly outdated & not used much)
• SGL (Subsidiary General Ledger) A/c with the Public Debt Office of the RBI. 
The SGL A/cs are however restricted only to few entities like the Banks & 
Institutions.
• Constituent SGL A/c with Banks or PDs who hold the G-secs on behalf of the 
investors in their SGL-II A/cs of RBI, meant only for client holdings.
• Same Demat A/c as is used for equities at the Depositories. NSDL & CDSL will 
hold them in their SGL-II A/cs of RBI, meant only for client holdings.
29. Q. What are the type of transactions which take place in the market?
A. The following two types of transactions take place in the Indian markets:
• Direct transactions between banks and other wholesale market participants which 
account for around 25% of the Wholesale Market volumes: Here the Banks and the 
Institutions trade directly between themselves either through the telephone or the 
NDS system of the RBI.
• Broker intermediated transactions, which account for around 70–75% of the trades 
in the market. These brokers need to be members of a Recognized Stock Exchange 
for RBI to allow the Banks, Primary Dealers and Institutions to undertake dealings 
through them.
Treasury Management.indb 435 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
436 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
30. Q. What is the role of the Exchanges in the WDS?
A. BSE and other Exchanges offer order-driven screen based trading facilities for Govt. 
securities. The trading activity on the systems is however restricted with most trades 
today being put through in the broker offices and reported to the Exchange through their 
electronic systems which provide for reporting of “Negotiated Deals” and “Cross Deals”. 
BSE WHOLESALE DEBT SEGMENT (WDS)
31. Q. When was the BSE accorded regulatory permission for the WDS?
A. Government securities market the largest and oldest component of Indian debt market 
was very active segment on BSE since beginning of the 19th century. Government papers 
were traded actively at BSE however wholesale debt market segment for government 
securities for institutional investors was further introduced by BSE pursuant to following 
notifications issued by RBI. DBOD. FSC. BC. No. 39/24.76.002/2000 dated October 
25, 2000 IDMC. PDRS. PDS. No PDS-2/03.64.00/2000–01 dated November 13, 2000 
DBS. FID No. C 10/01.08.00/2000–0122 dated November, 2000 The above notifications 
permitted Banks, Primary Dealers and Financial Institutions in India to undertake 
transactions in debt instruments among themselves or with non-bank clients through the 
members of BSE Limited. The Wholesale Debt Market Segment of BSE commenced 
its operations on June 15, 2001. 
32. Q. How is the settlement carried out in the Wholesale Debt Market?
A. The settlement for the various trades is finally carried out through the Clearing Corporation 
of India (CCIL). As far as the Broker Intermediated transactions are concerned, the 
settlement responsibility for the trades in the Wholesale market is primarily on the clients, 
i.e., the market participants and the broker has no role to play in the same. The member 
only has to report the settlement details to the Exchange for monitoring purposes. The 
Exchange reports the trades to RBI regularly and monitors the settlement of these trades.
33. Q. What are the trading and reporting facilities offered by the BSE 
Wholesale Debt Segment?
A. The BSE Wholesale Debt Segment offers reporting facilities through the ICDM System, 
a browser based system, which is an efficient and reliable reporting system for all the 
debt instruments of different types and maturities including Central and State Govt. 
securities, T-Bills, Institutional bonds, PSU bonds, Commercial Paper, Certificates of 
Deposit, Corporate debt instruments and the new innovative instruments like Repos. 
34 Q. What are the varied deal reporting modules in the ICDM G-sec 
system?
A. The system permits reporting in the Wholesale Debt Market through the two following 
avenues:
Treasury Management.indb 436 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 437 437
• Negotiated Deal Module – which permits the reporting of trades undertaken by the 
market participants through the members of the Exchange.
• Cross Deal Module – permitting reporting of trades undertaken by two different 
market participants through a single member of the Exchange.
35. Q. What is the membership criteria and charges for the membership 
of the BSE Wholesale Debt Segment?
A. The membership of the debt market segment is being granted to the Existing Members of 
the Exchange. The members need to have a minimum net worth of `30 lacs for admission 
to undertaking dealings on the debt segment. No security deposit is applicable for the 
membership of the Debt Segment as in other. Exchanges. The annual approval/renewal 
charges of `25,000/- have been waived at present.
36. Q. What is the settlement mode allowed in GILT?
A. The settlements for all the trades executed on the system are on T+1 basis, as mandated 
by the Reserve Bank of India.
37. Q. What are the aspects for settlement of trades in G-secs in GILT?
A. The Settlement for the securities traded in the Debt Segment would be on a Trade by 
Trade DVP basis. The primary responsibility of settling trades concluded in the wholesale 
segment rests directly with the participants who would settle the trades executed in the 
GILT system on their behalf through the Subsidiary Ledger Account of the RBI. Each 
transaction is settled individually and netting of transaction is not allowed. The Exchange 
would monitor the Clearing and Settlement process for all the trades executed or reported 
through the ‘GILT’ system. The Members need to report the settlement details to the 
Exchange for all the trades undertaken by them on the GILT system.
CORPORATE DEBT MARKET
38. Q. What is the structure of the Corporate Debt Market in India?
A. The Indian Primary market in Corporate Debt is basically a private placement market 
with most of the corporate bond issues being privately placed among the wholesale 
investors i.e. the Banks, Financial Institutions, Mutual Funds, Large Corporates & other 
large investors. The proportion of public issues in the total quantum of debt capital issued 
annually has decreased in the last few years. Around 92% of the total. funds mobilized 
through corporate debt securities in the Financial Year 2002 was through the private 
placement route. The Secondary Market for Corporate Debt can be accessed through 
the electronic order-matching platform offered by the Exchanges. BSE offers trading in 
Corporate Debt Securities through the automatic BOLT system of the Exchange. The 
Debt Instruments issued by Development Financial Institutions, Public Sector Units and 
Treasury Management.indb 437 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
438 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
the debentures and other debt securities issued by public limited companies are listed in 
the ‘F Group’ at BSE. 
 39. Q. What are the various kinds of debt instruments available in the 
Corporate Debt Market?
A. The following are some of the different types of corporate debt securities issued:
• Non-Convertible Debentures
• Partly-Convertible Debentures/Fully-Convertible Debentures (convertible in to 
Equity Shares)
• Secured Premium Notes
• Debentures with Warrants
• Deep Discount Bond
• PSU Bonds/Tax-Free Bonds
 40. Q. How is the trading, clearing and settlement in Corporate Debt 
carried out at BSE?
A. The trading in corporate debt securities in the F Group are traded on the BOLT ordermatching system based on price-time priority. The trades in the ‘F Group’ at BSE are 
to be settled on a rolling settlement basis with a T+2 Cycle with effect from 1st April 
2003. Trading continues from Monday to Friday during the week. The Trade Guarantee 
Fund (TGF) of the Exchange covers all the trades in the ‘F’ Group undertaken on the 
electronic BOLT system of the Exchange. 
BSE RETAIL DEBT SEGMENT (REDS)
41. Q. What are the securities/instruments traded in the Retail Debt 
Segment (REDS) at the Exchange?
A. The Retail trading in Central Government Securities commenced on January 16, 2003 
through the BOLT System of the Exchange. Central Government Securities (G-Secs.) 
are currently listed at the Exchange under the G Group. The Exchange may introduce, 
in due course of time, retail trading in other debt securities like the following, subject 
to the receipt of regulatory approval for the same:
• State Government Securities
• Treasury Bills
• STRIPS
• Interest Rate Derivative products
Treasury Management.indb 438 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 439 439
42. Q. Who are the participants in the Retail Debt Market?
A. The following are the main investor segments who could participate in the Retail Debt 
Market:
• Mutual Funds
• Provident Funds
• Pension Funds
• Private Trusts.
• Religious Trusts and charitable organizations having large investible corpus
• State Level and District Level Co-operative Banks
• Housing Finance Companies
• NBFCs and RNBCs
• Corporate Treasuries
• Hindu-Undivided Families (HUFs)
• Individual Investors
43. Q. What is the membership criteria and procedure for the 
membership of the BSE Retail Debt Segment (REDS)?
A. Eligibility Criteria for Members: The Members of the Segment possessing a net-worth 
of `1 crore and above are eligible to trade in the Retail Debt segment. The members are 
required to submit additional contribution of `5 lakhs as refundable contribution towards 
the separate Trade Guarantee Fund for this Segment. This contribution of `5 lakhs 
towards the Trade Guarantee Fund could be submitted in terms of cash or FDR or Bank 
Guarantee. However, the Exchange has permitted the Members to earmark `5 lakhs from 
their additional capital for a period of one month or till such time separate contribution 
for TGF is provided by them, whichever is earlier
44. Q. How are the Retail Transactions in G-Secs. executed at the 
Exchange?
A. Eligibility Criteria for Members: The Members of the Segment possessing a net-worth 
of `1 crore and above are eligible to trade in the Retail Debt segment. The members are 
required to submit additional contribution of `5 lakhs as refundable contribution towards 
the separate Trade Guarantee Fund for this Segment. This contribution of `5 lakhs 
towards the Trade Guarantee Fund could be submitted in terms of cash or FDR or Bank 
Guarantee. However, the Exchange has permitted the Members to earmark `5 lakhs from 
their additional capital for a period of one month or till such time separate contribution 
for TGF is provided by them, whichever is earlier. 
Treasury Management.indb 439 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
440 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
45. Q. What is the listing procedure for G-Secs. in respect of the Retail 
Debt Market?
A. • Eligible Securities: All outstanding and newly issued central government securities 
are eligible to be traded on the automated, anonymous, order driven system of the 
eligible stock exchange. The Rules, Bye-Laws and Regulations of the Exchange 
provide for trading in Government securities as all G-secs are deemed to be admitted 
to dealings on the Exchange from the date on which they are issued as per Bye-Law 
22(a) and 22(b) of the Exchange.
• Group: The Government securities have been introduced as a new group of 
securities – “G” Group in the BOLT system. The G-secs are allotted a 6-digit 
scrip code (in the 800000 series) and a 11 characters alpha-numeric scrip ID. The 
interpretation for the Scrip IDs of G-Secs. in BOLT is as under:
o First 2 characters signify Central Government Security – CG.
o Next 4 Digits signify the coupon or interest rate of the G-Sec.
o Next 1 character is a differentiator which would be ‘S’ in case of a normal security 
and ‘A’ incase there exists another security with the same coupon and maturity 
year.
o Next 2 Digits signify the Issue Year and the last 2 digits signify the Maturity Year.
The date in the Scrip Name stands for the Maturity Date of the Security. The 
Exchange will implement and monitor the suspension of trading during the shut 
down period so that no settlements fall due in the no-delivery period which is 
on the T-3, T-2 and T-1 days for Government Securities (where T is the interest 
payment date for the security).
46. Q. What is the trading methodology in case of the Retail trading in 
G-Secs.?
A. • Trading Methodology: The G-Secs shall be traded on the system and settled at the 
same price, which will be inclusive of the accrued interest, i.e., the Dirty Price as 
per the market parlance in the Wholesale Debt Market. This is similar to the trading 
on the cum-interest price as is witnessed in the case of corporate debentures. The 
minimum order size shall be 10 units of G-Secs with a face value `100/- each 
equivalent to an order value of `1000/- and the subsequent orders will be in lots of 
10 securities each.
• Trading & Exposure Limits: The members of the Retail Debt Segment are permitted 
gross exposure in government securities along their gross exposure in equity segment 
upto 15 times of their additional capital deposited by them with the Exchange. 
However, no gross exposure is permitted to the members against their Base Minimum 
Capital + contribution of `10 lakhs towards TGF in the cash segment. Transactions 
done by the members in this segment along with their transactions in the equity 
segment would form part of their Intra-day Trading Limits and are subject to a limit 
of 33.33 times of the capital deposited with the Exchange. However, institutional 
business would not form part of these Intra-Day & Gross Exposure limits.
Treasury Management.indb 440 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 441 441
47. Q. How does the Clearing & Settlement of the Retail G-Sec. 
transactions take place in REDS?
A. The Clearing and Settlement mechanism for the Retail trading in G-Secs is based on the 
existing institutional mechanism available at the Stock Exchanges for the Equity Markets. 
The trades executed throughout the continuous trading sessions will be netted out at the 
end of the trading hours through a process of multilateral netting. The transactions will 
be netted out member-wise and then scrip-wise so as to determine the net settlement 
and payment obligations of the members.
The Delivery obligations and the payment orders in respect of these members are 
generated by the Clearing and Settlement system of the Exchange. These statements 
indicate the pay-in and pay-out positions of the members for securities and funds who 
would then give the necessary instructions to their Clearing Banks and depositories. 
Custodial confirmation of the retail trades in G-Secs. by using 6A-7A mechanism as 
available in the Equity segment is also available. The schedule of various settlement 
related activities like obligation download, custodial confirmation, pay-in/pay-out of 
funds and securities is similar to what is at present applicable in the equities segment. 
As per an RBI Circular, the RBI regulated entities are to settle their transactions in the 
Retail Debt Segment at the Exchange through a Custodian.
48. Q. How are the security delivery shortages treated in the Retail Debt 
Segment?
A. In the event of failure/shortage in delivery of securities, the Exchange would close-out 
such shortages at the ZCYC valuation for prices plus a 5% penalty factor which would be 
debited to the account of the member who has failed to deliver the securities against his 
sale obligation. The buyer in the event of non-delivery of securities by the seller would 
be eligible to receive the compensation/consideration which would be computed at the 
higher of either the highest trade price from the trade date to the date of close out or closing 
price of the security in the normal market on the close-out date plus interest calculated 
at the rate of overnight FIMMDA-NSE MIBOR for the close-out date. The difference 
between the amount debited to the seller and amount payable to the buyer on the basis 
discussed above would be credited to the Investor Protection Fund of the Exchange. The 
Exchange has also set up a separate Trade Guarantee Fund (Settlement Guarantee Fund) 
for the Retail Trading in G-Secs. as was mandated by SEBI through its circular. 
49. Q. How is the margining structure at the Exchange for the Retail Debt 
Market?
A. • Margining – Mark to Market: The positions in the Retail Debt segment are 
marked to market until settlement and mark to market margin on net outstanding 
position of the members is collected on all open net positions. The mark to market 
margin is calculated based on the prices derived from the Zero Coupon Yield Curve 
(ZCYC). This margin is to be collected on the T+1 day along with the margin on 
the outstanding positions in cash segment.
Treasury Management.indb 441 6/19/2018 6:24:17 PM
442 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
• Margin exemption to Institutional business: Institutional business (i.e., business done 
by members on behalf of Indian Financial Institutions, Foreign Institutional Investors, 
Scheduled Commercial Banks, Mutual Funds registered with SEBI) would be exempted 
from margin, as is applicable in the case of transactions in the equity segment, as the 
institutions are required under the relevant regulations to transact only on the basis of 
giving and taking delivery. The members would, however, be required to mark client 
type ‘FI’ at the time of order entry for availing of exemption from payment of margins 
and also exclusion of such trades from Intra-day Trading and Gross Exposure Limits. 
Custodial trades on behalf of Provident Funds transacting through a SGL-II account 
(Constituent SGL a/c) would also be eligible for margin exemption.
• Margin Exemption against delivery: Margin exemption for early pay-in of securities 
in case of sale transactions as applicable for the equities segment would also be available 
for this segment.
INVESTOR SAFEGUARDS
50. Q. What are the main points to be kept in mind by the investor while 
investing in the Debt Markets?
A. The main features which you need to check for any debt security is:
• Coupon (or the discount implied by the price as in the case of zero coupon bonds) 
and the frequency of interest payments. The securities can also be chosen in such 
a manner so that the interest payments coincide with any requirements of funds at 
that point of time.
• Timing of Cash Flows – In case the interest and redemption proceeds, at one single 
point or at different points of time, are planned to be used for meeting certain planned 
expenses in the future.
• Information about the Issuer and the Credit Rating – It is essential to obtain enough 
information about the background, the business operations, the financial position, the use 
of the funds being collected and the future projections to satisfy oneself of the suitability 
of the investment. As per the regulations in force in the capital markets, it is essential 
for any corporate debt security to obtain a credit rating from any of the major credit 
rating agencies. A proper analysis of the background and the financials of the issuer of 
any non-govt. debt instrument and especially the credit rating would lend greater safety 
to your investments.
• Other Terms of particular Issue – It is also advisable to check on certain terms of the 
issue like the use of the issue proceeds, the monitoring agency, the formation of trustees, 
the secured or unsecured nature of the bonds, the assets underlying the security and the 
credit-worthiness of the organization.
Most of the said information can be available from the prospectus of the said issue (In 
case of and any required and relevant details can also be obtained on demand from the 
lead manager of the issue
Treasury Management.indb 442 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 443 443
• Obtain all the relevant knowledge on the debt security like the coupon, maturity, interest 
payments, put and call options (if any), Yield To Maturity (at the particular price at which 
the trade is intended to be carried out) and the Duration of the Instrument.
• Check the Yield To Maturity (YTM) of the debt security with the YTMs of other 
comparable debt securities of the same class and features.
• Remember that the Yield and the Price are inversely related. So, you will be able to 
obtain a higher yield at a lower price.
• It is desirable to check on the liquidity of any corporate debt instrument before investing 
in it so as to ensure the availability of satisfactory exit options.
• The Debt Markets are suited for investors who seek decent returns over a longer time 
horizon with periodic cash flows. There is also a tax exemption for interest earned on 
G-Secs. up to `3000/- under Section 80L of the Income Tax Act.
The investor should be well aware of the set of risks associated with the Debt Markets 
like the default risk (non-receipt or delay in receipt of interest or principal), price risk, 
interest rate risk (risk of rates moving adversely after investment), settlement risk (or risk 
of non-delivery of securities and funds in the secondary market) and the re-investment 
risk (interest payments fetching a lower return when re-invested). Investors in the Debt 
Markets should follow a process of judicious investing after a careful study of the 
economic and money market condition, various instruments available for investment, the 
desired returns and its compatibility with existing investment opportunities, alternative 
modes available for investments and the relevant transaction costs. 
51. Q. What is the future scenario for the Retail Debt Market in India?
A. The Retail Debt Market is set to grow tremendously in India with the broadening of the 
market participation. and the availability of a wide range of debt securities for retail 
trading through the Exchanges. The following are the trends, which will impact the 
Retail Debt Market in India in the near future:
• Expansion of the Retail Trading platform to enable trading in a wide range of 
government and non-government debt securities.
• Introduction of new instruments like STRIPS, G-Secs. with call and put options, 
securitised paper etc.
• Development of the secondary market in Corporate Debt.
• Introduction of Interest Rate Derivatives based on a wide range of underlying in 
the Indian Debt and Money Markets.
• Development of the Secondary Repo Markets.
The BSE vision for the Indian Debt Market foresees the markets growing in leaps 
and bounds in the near future, soon attaining global standards of safety, efficiency 
and transparency. This will truly help the Indian capital markets to attain a place of 
pride among the leading capital markets of the world.
Source: BSE site
Treasury Management.indb 443 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
Important Excel functions for bond related calculations 
(Sourced from RBI site)
Function Syntax
1. PRESENT VALUE
PV (rate, nper, pmt, fv, type)
This function is used to find the present value of a series of future payments given the discount rate. 
This forms the basis for pricing a bond
Rate is the interest rate per period.
Nper is the total number of payment periods in an annuity.
Pmt is the payment made each period and cannot change over the life of the annuity.
Fv is the future value, or a cash balance you want to attain after the last payment is made. If fv is 
omitted, it is assumed to be 0 (the future value of a loan, for example, is 0).
Type is the number 0 or 1 and indicates when payments are due.
Set type equal to If payments are due
0 or omitted At the end of the period
1 At the beginning of the period
Example: To calculate the present value of `100 after every year for three years at an interest rate 
of 9%, the values would be;
Rate – 9% or 0.09; Nper – 3 (3 years); Pmt – 100; Fv – 0 as there is no balance left at the end of 
three years; Type – 0 (at the end of the period)
The answer would be 253.13
IMPORTANT EXCEL 
FUNCTIONS
Appendix
E
Appendices.indd 444 6/21/2018 3:29:47 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 445 445
2. FUTURE VALUE
FV (rate, nper, pmt, pv, type)
This function is used to calculate the future value of a series of investments made, given the interest rate.
Rate is the interest rate per period. Nper is the total number of payment periods in an annuity. Pmt is 
the payment made each period; it cannot change over the life of the annuity. Typically, pmt contains 
principal and interest but no other fees or taxes. If pmt is omitted, you must include the pv argument. 
Pv is the present value, or the lump-sum amount that a series of future payments is worth right now. 
If pv is omitted, it is assumed to be 0 (zero), and you must include the pmt argument.
Type is the number 0 or 1 and indicates when payments are due. If type is omitted, it is assumed 
to be 0.
Example: To calculate the future value of `100 paid every year for three years at an interest rate of 
9%, the values would be;
Rate – 9% or 0.09; Nper – 3 (3 years); Pmt – 100; Pv – 0 as there is no lumpsum payment at the 
beginning; Type – 1 (at the beginning of the period)The answer would be 357.31
3. COUPON DAYS
COUPDAYBS (settlement, maturity, frequency, basis)
This function is used to workout the number of days from the beginning to the end of the coupon 
period that contains the settlement date.
Settlement is the security’s settlement date. The security settlement date is the date after the 
issue date when the security is traded to the buyer.
Maturity is the security’s maturity date. The maturity date is the date when the security expires.
Frequency is the number of coupon payments per year. For annual payments, frequency = 1; 
for semiannual, frequency = 2; for quarterly, frequency = 4.
Basis is the type of day count basis to use. Appropriate code for the day count convention has to be 
provided as shown below;
Basis Day count basis Basis Day count basis
0 or omitted US (NASD) 30/360 3 Actual/365
1 Actual/actual 4 European 30/360
2 Actual/360
Example: In the case of security maturing on February 2, 2019, and settlement date May 27, 2009, 
the values in the formula would be;
Maturity – 2/2/2019; settlement – 27/5/2009; frequency – 2 (half yearly coupon) and basis – 4 (day 
count convention 30/360)
The result would be 180 (number of coupon days in the coupon period)
Treasury Management.indb 445 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
446 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
4. YEARFRAC
YEARFRAC (start_date, end_date, basis) (to find residual maturity)
This function is used to find the residual maturity of a security in years.
Start_date is a date that represents the start date.
End_date is a date that represents the end date.
Basis is the type of day count basis to use.
Example: For a security maturing on February 6, 2019, the residual maturity in number of years as 
on May 27, 2009 can be calculated as;
Start date – May 27, 2009; End date – 2/2/2019, basis – 4
The result would be 9.68 years
5. PRICE
PRICE (settlement, maturity, rate, yld, redemption, frequency, basis)
This function is used to find the price of security that pays periodic interest.
Settlement is the security’s settlement date. The security settlement date is the date on which 
the security and funds are exchanged.
Maturity is the security’s maturity date. The maturity date is the date when the security expires.
Rate is the security’s annual coupon rate.
Yld is the security’s annual yield.
Redemption is the security’s redemption value per `100 face value.
Frequency is the number of coupon payments per year. For annual payments, frequency = 1; 
for semiannual, frequency = 2; for quarterly, frequency = 4.
Basis is the type of day count basis to use.
Example: 6.05%2019 security maturing on February 2, 2019. It is yielding 6.68% in secondary 
market on June 1, 2009. Settlement date is June 2, 2009. Values in the price formula would be;
Settlement – 2/6/2009; maturity – 2/2/2019; rate – 6.05%; Yield – 6.68%; Redemption – 100 (face 
value); frequency – 2 (half yearly coupon); basis – 4. The result would be 95.55
6. YIELD
YIELD(settlement,maturity,rate,pr,redemption,frequency,basis)
This function is used to find the Yield to Maturity of a security given the price of the security.
Settlement is the security’s settlement date. The security settlement date is the date on which the 
security and funds are exchanged. Maturity is the security’s maturity date. The maturity date is the 
date when the security expires.
Rate is the security’s annual coupon rate.
Treasury Management.indb 446 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 447 447
Pr is the security’s price per `100 face value. Redemption. is the security’s redemption value 
per `100 face value. Frequency. is the number of coupon payments per year. For annual 
payments, frequency = 1; for semiannual, frequency = 2; for quarterly, frequency = 4. Basis. 
is the type of day count basis to use.
Taking the same example as above, and price at 95.55, the result for the yield would be 6.68%.
7. DURATION
DURATION (settlement, maturity, coupon, yld, frequency, basis)
This function is used to find the Duration of a security in number of years.
Settlement is the security’s settlement date. The security settlement date is the date on which the 
security and funds are exchanged. Maturity is the security’s maturity date. The maturity date is the 
date when the security expires.
Coupon is the security’s annual coupon rate.
Yld is the security’s annual yield.
Frequency is the number of coupon payments per year. For annual payments, frequency = 1; for 
semiannual, frequency = 2; for quarterly, frequency = 4.
Basis is the type of day count basis to use.
Example: 6.05%2019 security maturing on February 2, 2019. It is yielding 6.68% in secondary 
market on June 1, 2009. Settlement date is June 2, 2009. Values in the Duration formula would be;
Settlement – 2/6/2009; maturity – 2/2/2019; Coupon – 6.05%; Yield – 6.68%; frequency – 2 (half 
yearly coupon); basis – 4.
The result will be 7.25 years.
8. MODIFIED DURATION
MDURATION (settlement, maturity, coupon, yld, frequency, basis)
This function is used to calculate the Modified Duration of a security.
Settlement is the security’s settlement date. The security settlement date is the date on which 
the security and funds are exchanged. Maturity is the security’s maturity date. The 
maturity date is the date when the security expires.
Coupon is the security’s annual coupon rate.
Yld is the security’s annual yield.
Frequency is the number of coupon payments per year. For annual payments, frequency = 1; for 
semiannual, frequency = 2; for quarterly, frequency = 4.
Basis is the type of day count basis to use.
Taking the same example given above for Duration and feeding the values in the excel function, the 
formula result will be 7.01.
Treasury Management.indb 447 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
UNDERTAKINGS 
OF FEDAI
Appendix
F
Reg: Observing confidentiality/using services of brokers
1. As a dealer, I have access to/come to possess important/sensitive information on the Bank 
during the normal discharge of my responsibilities in the Dealing Room. I very clearly 
understand that the information may be of interest to our competitors, brokers, our clients, 
consultants and other players in the market. I also understand that any tipping off/sharing of 
this sensitive information with any of the market players may jeopardize the interests of our 
Bank.
Hence, I hereby affirm and undertake to observe utmost confidentiality/fidelity of information 
coming in my way during the discharge of my responsibilities. I also affirm and undertake not 
to share the information with any outside agency, save with the explicit written permission 
from the competent authority.
2. Further, I know that the Bank utilizes the services of accredited FX brokers for facilitating 
forex deals during the normal course of business. I also understand that I should not utilize 
the services of brokers for any other purpose, save for the benefit of the Bank.
Hence, I hereby affirm and undertake not to utilize the services of FX accredited brokers for 
any other purpose save for the benefit of the Bank.
Further the Banks have a practice of obtaining a comprehensive undertaking from the dealers 
covering various aspects of the dealing room. This is one of the best practices of the industry. The 
draft proforma of one such undertaking is provided here below.
9.1 Comprehensive Undertaking Letter From Dealers
9.1 Reg: Comprehensive undertaking with reference to my duties and responsibilities in the 
Dealing Room.
I acknowledge my familiarity with FEDAI Code of Conduct and I hereby undertake to adhere to 
the code of Conduct in letter and spirit.
I am aware of the limits governing my authority to commit the Bank to risk exposures as they apply 
to my own particular risk responsibilities and the level of my seniority. I hereby undertake to adhere 
to the limits as instructed/advised from time to time.
Treasury Management.indb 448 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 449 449
I hereby undertake to adhere to the responsibilities to remain within the RBI limits and guidelines 
in the area of my activities.
I am fully aware of, acknowledge and provide an undertaking to remain within the guidelines 
governing the banks activities with brokers including conducting business only with brokers 
authorised by Bank’s Risk Management Committee on the Bank’s brokers’ panel.
I further assure and undertake that I conduct my activities with the brokers in such a way that I do 
not allow the brokers to act as principals in transactions but they remain strictly in their authorised 
role as market intermediaries.
I require brokers to provide all broker notes and confirmations of transactions before close of business 
each day (or exceptionally by the beginning of the next business day, in which case the note must be 
prominently marked by the broker as having been transacted the previous day and Back Office must 
recast the previous nights position against limits reports) to the Bank’s Back Office for reconciliation 
with the transaction data.
I hereby undertake that I shall ensure that all brokerage payments and statements are received, 
reconciled and paid by the Bank’s Back Office Department and under no circumstances, I authorize 
or make a payment directly.
I understand and I am fully aware that acceptance of gifts, gratifications or other favors from brokers 
is strictly prohibited in terms of the guidelines. If there is any such case of acceptance of gifts, 
gratifications or other favors, the Bank is free to report the details to RBI’s Department of Banking 
Supervision.
I understand that I am prohibited from nominating a broker in transaction not done through that broker.
I understand and I am fully aware of the fact that the present rules permit prompt investigation of 
complaints against me and any malpractices by the brokers and reporting to FEDAI/RBI.
I hereby affirm that I am aware of the Bank’s normal trading hours, cut-off time for overnight 
positions and rules governing transactions done after dealing hours. I am also aware of the fact that 
offsite trading is/not allowed by our Bank at present.
I undertake that I shall maintain confidentiality of our Bank’s dealings and its customers trading 
activities as well as the responsibility for secure maintenance of access media, keys, passwords and 
PINs.
I am also aware that I should take at least one period of leave of not less than 14 days continuously 
per annum. I am also aware of the Bank’s internal policy with regard to staff rotation.
I hereby submit this comprehensive undertaking to the Bank to be kept on its record and also I hereby 
undertake to adhere strictly to all the rules and regulations governing the Dealing Room functioning 
as they are in force for the time being.
I hereby agree to give any other undertaking that you may require in the context of changing business 
practices, changing regulatory directives and changes in any other procedures and policies of the Bank.
Treasury Management.indb 449 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
Accrued Interest
If a coupon bearing security is traded between two coupon dates, the buyer has to compensate the 
seller by paying him that part of the interest which is due to him for the period for which he has held 
the security after the immediately preceding coupon date. The calculation of accrued interest is done 
according to the day-count convention of the security or market (See Day Count).
Ask Price
In Financial Markets, market makers quote both bid (buy) price and ask (offer) price. This indicates 
that the market-maker, not knowing the intention of the price-taker is quoting him rates for both 
buying as well as for selling. The bid price is generally lower than the sell price, as dictated by 
normal profit motive (Sometimes a dealer would quote the same bid and ask, in which case the price 
is called a ‘choice-price’). The difference between the bid and the ask price is normally called the 
‘bid-ask spread’. The spread depends on many factors like liquidity in the instrument quoted, the 
bias of the dealer, his eagerness or otherwise on trade, market volatility, etc. A small difference is 
considered to be a very fine price as the dealer is keeping very little of his profits. For example: A 
dealer quoting 12.50% 2024 might quote 105.15/20. This implies that the dealer is willing to buy 
the paper at 105.15 while he is willing to sell it at 105.20. In actual practice the price may be given 
as 15/20. It is understood that market participants are aware of the big figure. It should be kept in 
mind that while quoting interest rate rates, the bid is in fact higher than the offer. For example, a 
USD 3x6 FRA can be quoted as 5.75/70, implying that the dealer is willing to buy the FRA at a 
yield of 5.75% while he will sell the same FRA at a yield of 5.70%.
Asset Backed Security
Any security that offers to the investor an asset as the collateral is called Asset Backed Security. The 
rate of return required by the investor for such types of bonds is generally less compared to bonds 
that offer no collateral.
GLOSSARY OF DEBT 
MARKET TERMS
Appendix
G
Treasury Management.indb 450 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 451 451
Auction
It is the process of issuing a security through a price-discovery mechanism by asking for bids. This 
is the process followed by the RBI for all types of issues of debt market paper by it.
Balance Tenor
It is the un-expired life of the security.
Bank Rate
Bank Rate is a direct instrument of credit control. It is that interest rate or discount rate at which 
banks, financial institutions and other approved entities in the interbank market can get financial 
accommodation from the central bank of the country. By hiking the bank rate the central bank makes 
credit expensive and by lowering the same central bank make credit cheaper.
Basis Point
It is one hundredth of a percentage (i.e. 0.01). As interest rates are generally sensitive in the second 
place after the decimal point, the measure has large importance for the debt market.
Benchmark Rate
Benchmark rates are rates or the prices of instruments that are traded in the market and are used for 
pricing of other instruments. These rates or prices are used as benchmark for floating rate instruments. 
Typically, a benchmark rate should satisfy the following criteria:
1. The rate should be available readily and should either be directly observable in the market or 
made available by a credible agency.
2. The benchmark should be liquid so that counter-hedging strategies are readily available.
3. The rate should be unique and leave no scope for ambiguity.
The benchmark should be representative of the market. Internationally, the most popular benchmarks 
are the LIBOR and the US Treasury. In India, given the paucity of rates that satisfy the above criterion, 
not many benchmarks exist, save the MIBOR announced by either the NSE or Reuters.
Bid Price
See Ask Price
Bond
A bond is a promise in which the Issuer agrees to pay a certain rate of interest, usually as a percentage 
of the bond’s face value to the Investor at specific periodicity over the life of the bond. Sometimes 
Treasury Management.indb 451 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
452 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
interest is also paid in the form of issuing the instrument at a discount to face value and subsequently 
redeeming it at par. Some bonds do not pay a fixed rate of interest but pay interest that is a mark-up 
on some benchmark rate.
Bootstrapping
Bootstrapping is an iterative process of generating a Zero Coupon Yield Curve from the observed 
prices/yields of coupon bearing securities. The process starts from observing the yield for the 
shortest-term money market discount instrument (i.e., one that carries no coupon). This yield is 
used to discount the coupon payment falling on the same maturity for a coupon-bearing bond of the 
next higher maturity. The resulting equation is solved to give the zero yield (also called spot yield) 
for the higher maturity period. This process is continued for all securities across the time series. If 
represented algebraically, the process would lead to a nth degree polynomial that is generally solved 
using numerical methods. The most popular one being the Newton-Raphson technique.
Call Money
Borrowing or lending for one day up to 14 days, in the interbank market is known as call money. 
Entry into this segment of the market is restricted to notified participants which include scheduled 
commercial banks, primary dealers, development financial institutions and mutual funds.
Call Option
See Option
Callable Bond
A Bond which has a Call covenant in its terms of issue, i.e., one in which the Issuer reserves the 
right to buy-back the issue is called a Callable Bond.
Clean Price
A Clean Price of a bond or security is the discounted value of all its future cash flows (using a 
suitable discount rate, which can be the YTM or the relevant spot rate). However, if the bond is traded 
between two coupon dates, the buyer of the bond will have to compensate the seller for that part of 
the period between coupons for which the seller was owning the bond (See Accrued Interest). The 
price arrived at after adjusting the Clean Price for this factor is called the Dirty Price.
Collateralized Bond
Any fixed income instrument which has collateral as a back up to the issue is called a Collateralized 
Bond. In India, related terminology is secured bonds or unsecured bonds.
Treasury Management.indb 452 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 453 453
Commercial Paper (CP)
A Commercial Paper is a short-term unsecured promissory note issued by the raiser of debt to the 
investor. In India Corporates, Primary Dealers (PD) and All India Financial Institutions (FI) can 
issue these notes. For a corporate to be eligible, it must have a tangible net worth of `4 crore or more 
and have a sanctioned working capital limit sanctioned by a bank/FI. It is generally companies with 
very good rating which are active in the CP market, though RBI permits a minimum credit rating of 
Crisil-P2. The tenure of CPs can be anything between 15 days to one year, though the most popular 
duration is 90 days. These instruments are offered at a discount to the face value and the rate of interest 
depends on the quantum raised, the tenure and the general level of rates besides the credit rating of 
the proposed issue. While most of the issuing entities have established working capital limits with 
banks, they still prefer to use the CP route for flexibility in interest rates. The credit ratings for CP 
are issued by leading rating agencies. Recently, the quantum raised by the issuer through the CP has 
been excluded from the ambit of bank finance, but banks continue to prefer earmarking either their 
own limits for the corporate or the consortium limits while subscribing to the commercial paper.
Constituent SGL A/c
SGL account holders can have two SGL accounts with RBI – SGL account no.1 and SGL account 
no.2. SGL account no. 1 is the account for the own holdings of the bank or the PD who has the 
direct account. SGL account no.2 is for their constituents. Those who are not eligible for direct 
SGL account with RBI, say, for example, a Provident Fund Trust, which is not eligible for an SGL 
account can hold securities in demat form by opening a constituent SGL account with a Bank, PD. 
Through the SGL account no.2 of the party, who has direct account with RBI, the facility will be 
made available to the PF.
Convertible Bond
A bond that is partially or fully convertible into equity within a specified period of time from the 
date of issue is known as a convertible bond. In such cases, the bond does not pay the holder that 
part of the maturity value that is earmarked for conversion to equity.
Convexity
See in conjunction with Duration, PVBP and Immunization. Convexity is another measure of bond 
risk. The measure of Duration assumes a linear relationship between changes in price and duration. 
However, the relationship between change in price and change in yield is not linear and hence 
the estimated price change obtained by duration will give only an approximate value. The error is 
insignificant when the change in yield is small but does not hold true for larger changes in yield, as 
the actual price-yield relationship is convex. Convexity is the measure of the curvature of the priceyield relationship. It is also the rate of change of duration with a change in yield. A high convexity is 
often a desired characteristic as for a given change in yield, positive or negative, a bond’s percentage 
rise in price is greater than the percentage price loss.
Treasury Management.indb 453 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
454 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
While modified duration is used to predict the bond’s % change in price, small change in yields, 
modified duration and convexity together are used to calculate a bond’s % change in price for a large 
change in yield, as per this relationship.
Coupon
The rate of interest paid on a security, generally a fixed percentage of the face value, is called the 
coupon. The origin of the term dates back to the time when bonds had coupons attached to them, 
which the investor had to detach and present to the issuer to receive the money.
Credit Rating
Credit Rating is an exercise conducted by a rating organization to explore the credit worthiness of the 
issuer with respect to the instrument being issued or a general ability to pay back debt over specified 
periods of time. The rating is given as an alphanumeric code that represents a graded structure or 
creditworthiness. Typically the highest credit rating is that of AAA and the lowest being D (for 
default). Within the same alphabet class, the rating agency may apply ‘+’ (plus) or ‘–’ (minus) signs 
as suffixes to reflect comparative standing within the rating category.
CRR
This is the acronym for Cash Reserve Ratio. That part of their assets which banks in India are required 
to hold as Cash in balances with the Reserve Bank of India is called the Cash Reserve Ratio.
Current Yield
Current Yield on a bond is defined as the coupon rate divided by the price of the bond. This is a very 
inadequate measure of yield, as it does not take into account the effect of future cash flows and the 
application of discounting factors on them.
Day Count
The market uses quite a few conventions for calculation of the number of days that have elapsed 
between two dates. It is interesting to note that these conventions were designed prior to the emergence 
of sophisticated calculating devices and the main objective was to reduce the math in complicated 
formulae. The conventions are still in place even though calculating functions are readily available 
even in hand-held devices. The ultimate aim of any convention is to calculate (days in a month)/
(days in a year).
The conventions used are as below:
We take the example of a bond with Face Value 100, coupon 12.50%, last coupon paid on 15 June, 
2000 and traded for value 5 October, 2000.
Treasury Management.indb 454 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 455 455
A/360
In this method, the actual number of days elapsed between the two dates is divided by 360, i.e., the 
year is assumed to have 360 days. Using this method, accrued interest is 3.8888.
A/365
In this method, the actual number of days elapsed between the two dates is divided by 365, i.e., the 
year is assumed to have 365 days. Using this method, accrued interest is 3.8356.
A/A
In this method, the actual number of days elapsed between the two dates is divided by the actual 
days in the year. If the year is a leap year and the 29th of February is included between the two 
dates, then 366 is used in the denominator, else 365 is used. Using this method, accrued interest 
is 3.8356.
30/360
U.S. (NASD) method. If the starting date is the 31st of a month, it becomes equal to the 30th of the 
same month. If the ending date is the 31st of a month and the starting date is earlier than the 30th 
of a month, the ending date becomes equal to the 1st of the next month; otherwise the ending date 
becomes equal to the 30th of the same month.
30/360 European
European method. Starting dates and ending dates that occur on the 31st of a month become equal 
to the 30th of the same month. In Indian bond markets the 30/360 European convention is used. 
RBI while calculating yield in the SGL Transactions for T-Bills uses 364 as basis. This is probably 
because 364 is the longest tenure bill issued by it.
Derivatives
A Derivative is any instrument that derives its value from the price movement of an underlying 
asset. The most popular derivatives include Options, Futures and Swaps. Given the steep progress 
made by computing devices and the increased importance of quantitative techniques to the financial 
markets, the structure of derivatives have become severely complicated. It is not uncommon to find 
a combination of several options on a swap which pay-out depending on the occurrence of some 
event. The main input for pricing is volatility in the price of the underlying asset, which has given 
rise to the curious situation where the asset volatility is more heavily traded than the derivative 
itself. The application of derivative pricing has found its way in valuation of any contingent claim, 
floating rate notes, corporate valuation and project finance.
Treasury Management.indb 455 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
456 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Dirty Price
Dirty Price of a security is its Clean Price plus Accrued Interest. Also see Clean Price, Accrued Interest.
Discount
The quantum by which a security is issued or is traded below its par value is called Discount. Also 
see Discount Basis.
Discount Basis
Securities that do not carry a coupon are generally issued at a discount to their face value. Examples 
of such securities are T-Bills and Commercial Papers (CP).
Discriminatory Price Auction
See French Auction
Duration
Duration is a measure of a bonds’ price risk. It is weighted average of all the cash-flows associated 
with a bond, weighed by the proportion of value due to the jth payment in the cash-flow stream, with 
sum of all j’s equaling one. Duration measures the sensitivity of a bond’s price to a change in yield.
Dutch Auction
This is the process of auction in which after receiving all the bids, a particular yield is determined 
as the cut-off rate. All bids received at yields higher than the cut-off rate (i.e., at higher prices) are 
rejected. All bids received at yields below the cut-off rate are given allotment at the cut-off rate. 
The process is identical to that of the French Auction, except for the fact that there is no concept 
of allotment at a premium. The Liquidity adjustment Facility (LAF) of RBI is an example of such 
auction. Also see French Auction, Winner’s Curse.
Floating Rate Note
A Floating Rate Note is an instrument that does not pay a fixed rate of interest on its face value. The 
interest paid on such instruments is dependent upon the value of a benchmark rate. The benchmark 
rate is mutually agreed upon by the issuer and the investor and has to satisfy some criteria (See 
Benchmark Rates). The interest paid is typically a mark-up on the benchmark so agreed. An example 
would be a AAA rated corporate issuer who issues a Note that pays 30 bps above the U.S. Treasury. 
In India a very common instrument of late has been an issue that pays a specified markup above 
the MIBOR.
Treasury Management.indb 456 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 457 457
French Auction
This is a process of auction in which after all the bids are received, a particular yield is decided as 
the cut-off rate. All bids that have been received at yields higher than the cut-off rate (i.e., at lower 
prices) are rejected. All bids that have been received at below the cut-off rate (i.e., at higher prices) 
are given full allotment but at a premium from the price at the cut-off yield.
Gilts
This is another name for government securities. The term reflects the superior quality of the papers 
issued by the government. The papers issued by the Bank of England used to have gilt-edged borders 
and the term gilts originated from there.
Gross Price
See Dirty Price
Junk Bond
It is any bond which has a credit rating below Baa/BBB. These are bonds that are below investment 
grade and carry very attractive rates of return, commensurate with the high credit risk.
LAF
This is a facility by which the RBI adjusts the daily liquidity in the domestic markets (India) either 
by injecting funds or by withdrawing them out. This method was made effective on 5 June 2000 
and is open for Banks and Primary Dealers. This method has replaced the traditional method of 
refinance based on fixed rates.
LIBOR
It stands for London Interbank Offered rate. This is a very popular bench mark and is issued for US 
Dollar, GB Pound, Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar and the Japanese Yen. The maturity covers 
overnight to 12 months. The methodology, very briefly – the British Bankers Association (BBA) at 
1100 hrs GMT asks 16 banks to contribute the LIBOR for each maturity and for each currency. The 
BBA weeds out the best four and the worst four, calculates the average of the remaining eight and 
the value is published as LIBOR. The figures are put up in Reuters on page LIBO and SWAP. The 
same is available on TeleRate page 3170.
Mark To Market
Mark to Market or MTM is a very popular reporting and performance measurement tool for any 
investment. In this technique, the price at which the investment was made is compared with the 
Treasury Management.indb 457 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
458 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
price of which the asset can be realized if liquidated in the market at that moment. The difference 
is either the MTM gain or MTM loss depending upon the current worth vis-à-vis the original price. 
Liabilities can also be made subject to the same analysis as assets. Periodicity of MTM depends on 
the liquidity of the market in which the asset is a class. For example, currency and bond investments 
are MTM-ed online while other investments like real estate may be MTM-ed at higher intervals.
MIBOR
This stands for Mumbai Inter-Bank Offered Rate and it is closely modeled on the LIBOR. Currently 
there are two calculating agents for the benchmark – Reuters and the National Stock Exchange 
(NSE). The FIMMDA NSE MIBOR benchmark is the more popular of the two, reflected by the 
larger number of deals that are transacted using this benchmark.
Modified Duration
This is a slight variation to the concept of Duration. Modified Duration can be defined as the 
approximate percentage change in price for a 1% change in yield. Mathematically it is represented as 
Mod. Duration = Duration/(1+y/n), where n = number of coupon payments in the year and y = yield 
to maturity.
Multiple Price Auction
See French Auction
Net Price
See Clean Price
Non-Convertible Debenture (NCD)
A Non-Convertible debenture, as against a convertible debenture, is not convertible, either in part 
or the whole, into equity on its maturity.
Notice Money
It is money borrowed or lent in the interbank market for a period beyond one day and up to 14 days.
Open Market Operations
One of the major instruments of monetary policy by which the central bank of a country manipulates 
short-term liquidity and thereby the interest rates to desired levels. Generally open market operations 
involve purchase and sale of treasury bills in the open market or conducting repos.
Treasury Management.indb 458 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 459 459
Options
Options are of two types: Call Option and Put Option.
Call Option gives the buyer the right but not obligation to buy a given quantity of the underlying 
asset, at a given price on or before a given future date.
Put Option gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to sell a given quantity of the underlying 
asset, at a given price on or before a given future date.
PLR
This is the acronym for Prime Lending Rate. This is the rate at which a bank in India lends to its 
prime customer. The bank usually follows an internal credit rating system and charges a spread over 
the PLR for non-prime customers.
Price Value of a Basis Point
See PVBP
Primary Dealer (PD)
A Primary Dealer in the securities market is an entity licensed by the RBI to carry on the business of 
securities and act as market maker in securities. In turn the Primary Dealer will enjoy certain privileges 
from the RBI like refinance from RBI at concessional rates, access to the interbank call money 
market, etc. The PD has to give an annual undertaking to the RBI on his level of participation in the 
primary issues of government securities. To qualify for Primary Dealership the applicant company 
should have a net worth of `50.00 crore and a few years of experience in the securities market.
PVBP
Also called the Price Value of a Basis Point or Dollar Value of 01. This is one way of quantifying 
the sensitivity of a bond to changes in the interest rates. If the current price of the bond is P(0) 
and the price after a one basis point rise in rates is P(1), then PVBP is –[P(1)–P(0)]. This can 
be estimated with the help of the modified duration of a bond, as (Price of the bond * modified 
duration* .0001)
Repo
Repo or Repurchase Agreements are short-term money market instruments. Repo is nothing but 
collateralized borrowing and lending. In a repurchase agreement, securities are sold in a temporary 
sale with a promise to buy back the securities at a future date at specified price. In reverse repos, 
securities are purchased in a temporary purchase with a promise to sell it back after a specified number 
of days at a pre-specified price. When one is doing a repo, it is reverse repo for the other party.
Treasury Management.indb 459 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
460 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Reverse Repo
See Repo
Risk Free Rate
An interest rate given out by an investment that has a zero probability of default. Theoretically this 
rate can never exist in practice but sovereign debt is used as the nearest proxy.
SGL
Subsidiary General Ledger Account is the demat facility for government securities offered by the 
Reserve Bank of India. In the case of SGL facility the securities remain in the computers of RBI by 
credit to the SGL account of the owner. RBI offers SGL facility only to banks and primary dealers.
SLR
This is the acronym for Statutory Liquidity Ratio. That part of their Net Demand and Time liabilities 
(NDTL) that a bank is required by law to be kept invested in approved securities is known as SLR. 
The approved securities are typically sovereign issues. The maintenance of SLR ensures a minimum 
liquidity in the bank’s assets.
Spread
Spread is the difference between two rates of interests. It is often generalized to imply the difference 
between either price or yield. Spreads can be between two risk classes or can be between tenors in 
the same risk class. For example 130 bps between AAA and GOI means a 1.30% spread between a 
AAA issue and that made by the Government of India. 5 paisa spread between bid and ask means that 
in the two way price quoted, the difference between the buy and sell price is 5 paisa 60 bps spread 
between 3 months T Bill over 10 Year means that the difference between the yield in the 3 month 
Treasury Bill and that on a 10 Year paper of the same risk class is 60 basis points.
STRIPS
STRIPS is the acronym for Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities. The 
STRIPS program lets investors hold and trade the individual interest and principal components of 
eligible Treasury notes and bonds as separate securities. When a Treasury fixed-principal or inflation 
indexed note or bond is stripped, each interest payment and the principal payment becomes a separate 
zero-coupon security. Each component has its own identifying number and can be held or traded 
separately. For example, a Treasury note with 10 years remaining to maturity consists of a single 
principal payment at maturity and 20 interest payments, one every six months for 10 years. When 
this note is converted to STRIPS form, each of the 20 interest payments and the principal payment 
becomes a separate security.
Treasury Management.indb 460 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 461 461
STRIPS are also called zero-coupon securities because the only time an investor receives a payment 
during the life of a STRIP is when it matures. A financial institution, government securities broker, 
or government securities dealer can convert an eligible Treasury security into interest and principal 
components through the commercial book-entry system. Generally, an eligible security can be 
stripped at any time from its issue date until its call or maturity date. Securities are assigned a standard 
identification code known as a CUSIP number. CUSIP is the acronym for Committee on Uniform 
Security Identification Procedures. Just as a fully constituted security has it a unique CUSIP number, 
each STRIPS component has a unique CUSIP number. All interest STRIPS that are payable on the 
same day, even when stripped from different securities, have the same generic CUSIP numbers. 
However, the principal STRIPS from each note or bond have a unique CUSIP number.
STRIPS components can be reassembled or ‘reconstituted’ into a fully constituted security in the 
commercial book-entry system. To reconstitute a security, a financial institution or government 
securities broker or dealer must obtain the appropriate principal component and all un-matured 
interest components for the security being reconstituted. The principal and interest components must 
be in the appropriate minimum or multiple amounts for a security to be reconstituted. The flexibility 
to strip and reconstitute securities allows investors to take advantage of various holding and trading 
strategies under changing financial market conditions that may tend to favor trading and holding 
STRIPS or fully constituted Treasury securities.
Term Money
Money borrowed and lent for a period beyond 14 days is known as term money
Treasury Bills
Treasury Bills are short-term obligations of the Treasury/Government. They are instruments issued 
at a discount to the face value and form an integral part of the money market. In India, treasury bills 
are issued for two maturities 91 days and 364 days.
Uniform Price Auction
See Dutch Auction
WDM Segment
The National Stock Exchange of India has three trading segments, one is the Capital Markets Segment, 
Future & Option Segment and the other is the Wholesale Debt Market Segment. The Capital Markets 
Segment is meant for equities trading whereas all the trades in debt instruments are put through the 
WDM Segment. The WDM represents a formal screen-based trading and reporting mechanism for 
secondary market trades in debt instruments. The F&O segment is meant for trading in equity and 
interest rate derivatives.
Treasury Management.indb 461 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
462 TREASURY MANAGEMENT
Winners Curse
In a French auction, every successful bidder is one whose bid is equal or higher than the cut-off 
price. Therefore, successful bidders have to pay a premium on the cut-off price, on being successful 
in the auction. This is called the winners curse in treasury auctions.
Yield Curve
The relationship between time and yield on a homogenous risk class of securities is called the Yield 
Curve. The relationship represents the time value of money – showing that people would demand 
a positive rate of return on the money they are willing to part today for a payback into the future. It 
also shows that a Rupee payable in the future is worth less today because of the relationship between 
time and money. A yield curve can be positive, neutral or flat. A positive yield curve, which is most 
natural, is when the slope of the curve is positive, i.e., the yield at the longer end is higher than that 
at the shorter end of the time axis. This results as people demand higher compensation for parting 
their money for a longer time into the future. A neutral yield curve is that which has a zero slope, 
i.e. is flat across time. This occurs when people are willing to accept more or less the same returns 
across maturities. The negative yield curve (also called an inverted yield curve) is one of which the 
slope is negative, i.e. the long-term yield is lower than the short-term yield. It is not often that this 
happens and has important economic ramifications when it does. It generally represents an impending 
downturn in the economy, where people are anticipating lower interest rates in the future.
Yield Pick-Up
Yield pick-up or yield give up refers to the yield gained or lost at the time of initiation of a trade 
primarily in bonds and debentures. Suppose one sold 12.50 % GOI 2024 at a yield of 10.00 per cent 
and moved into 11.83 % GOI 2019 at a yield of 11.25 per cent, the yield pickup is to the tune of 
125 basis points. If one did exactly the reverse of this, the yield give up is to the extent of 125 bps. 
These concepts are ordinarily used in bond swap evaluation.
Yield To Maturity
Yield to Maturity (YTM) is that rate of discount that equates the discounted value of all future cash 
flows of a security with its current price. In a way, it is another way of stating the price of a security 
as other things remaining constant the price is a direct function of the YTM. The deficiency of YTM 
is that it assumes that all intermediate and final cash flow of the security is reinvested at the YTM, 
which ignores the shape of the yield curve. This makes YTM applicable as a measure for an individual 
security and to different bonds in the same risk class. The YTM, given its instrument-specific nature 
does not provide unique mapping from maturity to interest rate space. It is used primarily for its 
simplicity of nature and ease of calculation. More sophisticated traders would use the Zero Coupon 
Yield Curve (ZCYC) for valuation. See Zero Coupon Yield Curve.
Treasury Management.indb 462 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
FINANCIAL MARKETS APPENDICES 463 463
Zero Coupon Bond
A Zero Coupon Bond (ZCB) is one that pays no periodic interest (does not carry a coupon). These 
bonds are typically issued at a discount and redeemed at face value. The discount rate, appropriated 
over the life of the bond is the effective interest paid by the issuer to the investor. In India, the 
spectrum of ZCB is virtually non-existent beyond one year. Up to one year, the Treasury Bills issued 
are proxies for ZCB. Also see Zero Coupon Yield Curve.
Zero Coupon Yield Curve
The Zero Coupon Yield Curve (also called the Spot Curve) is a relationship between maturity and 
interest rates. It differs from a normal yield curve by the fact that it is not the YTM of coupon bearing 
securities, which gets plotted. Represented against time are the yields on zero coupon instruments 
across maturities. The benefit of having zero coupon yields (or spot yields) is that the deficiencies of 
the YTM approach (See Yield to Maturity) are removed. However, zero coupon bonds are generally 
not available across the entire spectrum of time and hence statistical estimation processes are used. 
The NSE computes the ZCYC for treasury bonds using the Nelson-Seigel procedure, and disseminates 
this information on an everyday basis. The zero coupon yield curve is useful in valuation of even 
coupon bearing securities and can be extended to other risk classes as well after adjusting for the 
spreads. It is also an important input for robust measures of Value at Risk (VaR).
Treasury Management.indb 463 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM
Treasury Management.indb 464 6/19/2018 6:24:18 PM